Sunny: Hey, hello everyone, I'm Audible. Can you please confirm in the chat if you can hear me?
Sunny: So, let's start with the session, let's start the class. If I'm audible, then please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Guys, my screen is visible.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, just give me a moment, I'm going to sh- I'm going to start with the class, okay? Wait.
Sunny: Yeah, good evening to all of you. Good evening, everyone.
Sunny: Okay, so let's start, let's begin. I hope I am visible to all of you. Yes, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay, perfect. So, in the previous class, we were… we have started with the fine-tuning. So, how many of you joined my previous session? May I know in the chat, guys, how many of you, you joined my previous class?
Sunny: If you have joined the previous session, then please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Okay, so many of you, right? So, most of you, you have joined my previous class, you have joined my previous session. Now, guys, in today's session, in today's class, again, we'll discuss a couple of more things related to the fine-tuning, and mainly we'll focus on the,
Sunny: framework side, okay? So we have a different, different framework, if, we are going to implement the fine-tuning.
Sunny: So, two, framework are the very important one, and in today's class, guys, we'll discuss those frameworks, okay? So, yesterday only, I, told you, right? So, yesterday only, I told you, right, which all framework we are going to be discuss. Can anyone write the name in the chat?
Sunny: Can anyone write the name in the chat, if you are aware about the framework?
Sunny: So the first framework is going to be Hugging Face, correct. And what was the next framework? What was the second framework?
Sunny: So the second framework name was the Unsloth, yes? I hope everyone knows about the… everyone knows about the Hugging Face, but most of you, you don't know about the Unsloth, okay? So don't worry, we are going to discuss about the Unsloth. Hugging Face and Unsloth, both I'm going to discuss, okay? And
Sunny: After that, guys, what I'll do… so after discussing the hugging phase and the unslot, basically, I will come to the, fine-tuning implementation, okay? So, first, we'll discuss the basic and the fundamental of the hugging phase and the onslaught, and after that, guys, I will come to the core fine-tuning part. Core fine-tuning stuff. Got it?
Sunny: So the idea and the agenda is clear. If it is clear, then please let me know, until I can check with my previous class recording, whether it is updated or not. So guys, once you will go and check with the dashboard, right? So there, you will find out all the recording, everything, guys.
Sunny: So, over here, you will get the resources also. So, resources are also uploaded under the resource section, and along with that, you will find out the recording. So, have you watched the recording? Have you gone through with the recording?
Sunny: Yes.
Sunny: Okay, great, perfect.
Sunny: So, now let's begin, let's start… just give me a quick thumbs up, so that we can start with today's class, with today's session.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: And, I have yes with me, so if you have any sort of a doubt, you can write it down in the chat. And if, let's suppose we are not able to answer for any question, right, during the session, then you can discuss your doubt in a doubt session. Got it, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah, I'm going to disable the chat, don't worry. I think it is open for everyone.
Sunny: Fine.
Sunny: So, let's, begin, let's start. So, this is the notes from the previous class. I hope so, you have gone through with this entire notes. Okay, and you understood about the fine-tuning. So, may I know what is a fine-tuning? Can anyone tell me in a single, can anyone tell me in a single line what is the meaning of the fine-tuning? Tell me, guys, what do you understand with the fine-tuning?
Sunny: If your fundamental, if your basic understanding is clear about the fine-tuning, please let me know.
Sunny: Yes, training LLM with the custom data.
Sunny: Now, guys, one more thing. We're talking about the fine-tuning, right? So, there, what we are going to do, we are going to train the weights.
Sunny: We are going to train the weights of the model. So, do we have weights inside the model, inside the transformer model?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: We have weights inside the transformer model, correct? So where these weights are existing in the transformer model?
Sunny: Yes.
Sunny: So, I think everyone knows where these weights are existing in the transformer model. So, these weights are existing in the decoder part.
Sunny: In the decoder, actually, and inside the decoder, we have a specific type of mechanism that is called self-attention.
Sunny: So, inside the self-attention, inside the feed-forward network, these weights are going to be adjusted. Now, whenever we are training any LLM guys, any large language model, so how many stages we have.
Sunny: How many stages we have.
Sunny: We have 3 stages. First is called the pre-training, second is called the SFT, and the third is called the preference tuning.
Sunny: Now, guys, can we perform the fine-tuning from any of the stage?
Sunny: Can we pick the model from any of the stage, yes or no?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So we can pick the, we can pick the model from any of the stage, and we can perform the fine-tuning, right? Only one person is saying no, why no, Manish?
Sunny: Okay, great. Now, if we want to implement the fine-tuning, so what of framework we are going to be understand? What of framework we are going to be learned?
Sunny: So we are going to be understanding two frameworks. First is going to be Hugging Face.
Sunny: And second framework is going to be Unsloth, right? So these two frameworks we are going to be discussed. Here I mention the name, here I return the name over here. The first is the Hugging Face, and second framework is going to be what?
Sunny: Second framework is going to be Unsloth, okay?
Sunny: Great. Now, apart from this one, guys, if we're talking about the SFT. So, SFT is also called the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny: SFT is also called the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny: Right. So, SFT is also called the instruction fine-tuning, okay? Now, over here, guys, you can see, yesterday I, explained you how to select the model, whether you need to take a pre-trained model, raw model, or you need to take the instruct model, okay?
Sunny: So, here also, I have explained you one use case, and with that particular use case, we understood, right?
Sunny: Now, apart from that one, guys, I explain you, so what we are going to be perform. So, mainly, we are going to be perform the SFT, that is called Instruction Fine Tuning, right?
Sunny: So, we are going to take a raw model, or we are going to take an already instruct-tuned model, and on top of that, we are going to perform the SFT, okay? Now, if we're talking about the SFT, so how many ways we have? We have two ways. The first is called the old-school method.
Sunny: And the second is called the PEFT method. Now, under the PEFT method, we have this latest and the advanced method that is called LoRa and the DORA, okay? So, we are going to be discussing this LoRa, DORA, and the QLORA, right? Mainly, I will focus on the LoRa and the QLORA, okay?
Sunny: And I will give you some glimpse of the door as well, right? So these methods are specifically called the parameter-efficient fine-tuning method. Got it? Great. Then, guys, if we're talking about the preference alignment, so in the preference alignment, again, we have some methods, like RLHF, GRPO, DPO, PPO, sorry, ORPO.
Sunny: Right? So here, we are going to be discuss about the RLHF, we are going to be discussed about the DPO, okay? So I will show you how to perform the preference tuning.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, I hope, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear, but whenever we want to implement the fine-tuning.
Sunny: Okay, whenever we want to implement the fine-tuning, so we required some framework.
Sunny: Right? We required some framework, because we cannot write a code from scratch, okay? Now, if we're talking about the, if we're talking about the AI guys, now, can anyone tell me in AI which language we are using for writing a code?
Sunny: Which language we are using for writing a code.
Sunny: So, we are going to be using Python language.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So we are mainly focusing on the Python language.
Sunny: Okay? So Python is our… programming language. What is a Python, guys?
Sunny: Python is R.
Sunny: programming language.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, using this Python, some framework have been designed.
Sunny: some framework have been designed. So, the framework name is PyTorch. Have you heard about the PyTorch?
Sunny: PyTorch, actually, it is a specialized… it is a specialized framework which is specifically written in a Python, right? So the parent library of the PyTorch is a torch.
Sunny: T-O-R-C-H.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: The stores library D is written in C++.
Sunny: Right? And this Torch library is having one specific variant that is called PyTorch.
Sunny: Now, this PyTorch is specifically written in Python.
Sunny: Now, this PyTorch, actually, it is mainly written for what? It is mainly written for the deep learning.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Deep learning.
Sunny: So, whether we're talking about the computer vision, whether we're talking about the NLP,
Sunny: Right? Or whether we're talking about the, the current large language model, or advanced NLP. Current? Advanced NLP.
Sunny: Advanced NLP.
Sunny: In the advanced NLP, this transformer also comes.
Sunny: And using this transformer only, we have coded the different, different large language model.
Sunny: So, if I wanted to code anything from scratch inside the deep learning.
Sunny: If I wanted to code anything from scratch inside the deep learning.
Sunny: So we are going to be using this PyTorch.
Sunny: Have you gone through with the transformer's code?
Sunny: Have you seen the transformer code?
Sunny: If you have seen the transformer code.
Sunny: I shared one transformer code with all of you, right? So this transformer code is written in which language?
Sunny: This transformer code is written in Python language.
Sunny: But we have used a specific framework.
Sunny: Pythonic framework. That framework is called what? The framework is called the PyTorch.
Sunny: Okay? Now, this PyTorch, basically, it provides a dot… it provides… it provides us a tensor-specific operation.
Sunny: Okay, it provides one PyTorch-based tensor.
Sunny: Okay? It provides us PyTorch-based tensor, and you… using that PyTorch-based tensor, we can perform the different, different, we can perform the different, different tensor-specific operation.
Sunny: Now, if we're talking about the deep learning, if we're talking about the NLP, right? So, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the NLP, we're talking about a transformer architecture. So, I already told you one thing in the starting of the transformer session, that in deep learning, everything is a metrics multiplication.
Sunny: Did I explain this part or not?
Sunny: In PyTorch, everything is a metrics multiplication.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So, if we're talking about the tensors.
Sunny: So, these tensors are nothing. This tensor is a special type of matrixes.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: These tensors are nothing, it is a special type of matrixes. It's a special matrix.
Sunny: And this metric is being executed where, guys? Tell me. This metric says it's being executed where? This is a special kind of metric says where it's going to be executed over the GPU.
Sunny: Okay? This, this, matrix is basically, it's going to be executed where? Over the GPU. Now, we're talking about the GPU, so over the GPU, we have one more layer that is called the CUDA layer, CUDA kernel.
Sunny: This CUDA kernel, actually, it is specifically designed by the NVDR.
Sunny: Okay? NVIDIA.
Sunny: It is some special kind of program which is written in a C++.
Sunny: It is some special kind of program which is written in a C++. Okay, so this GPU, over the GPU, guys, they have created one specific kind of layer that is called a CUDA kernel. So we're talking about the GPU, right? How the data is being processed over the GPU, so it is being processed through the CUDA kernel. It is a special specific kind of programming.
Sunny: which is written for the GPUs only, right? And then there is a lot many enhancements in the CUDA kernel, and different, different companies have released their own CUDA kernel kind of library, okay? So whenever we are talking about the tensor, so this tensor is being executed over the GPU, and it is being executed with the help of this CUDA kernel.
Sunny: Okay? So, if we're talking about the PyTorch, so PyTorch is a high-level framework. PyTorch is what? PyTorch is a high-level framework. With that, we can write the code, we can write a code for any LLM from scratch.
Sunny: whatever LLM we wanted to code from scratch, we can code it… we can code that framework using the PyTorch.
Sunny: Okay, and PyTorch is supporting the tensor-based operation, PyTorch tensor-based operation, okay? And this tensor is being executed where this tensor is being executed over the GPU, right? With the help of this CUDA kernel, which is written by the NVIDIA. Getting my point, guys?
Sunny: Are you able to connect this each and everything? So if someone is going to be asked you what is a PyTorch, what you will say over here.
Sunny: What you will say over here, if someone is going to be asked you.
Sunny: Yes, is there or not? Just a second, guys. Give me, give me a moment, wait, okay?
Sunny: Okay, guys, can you hear me now? Great.
Sunny: So, here, if we're talking about… if we're talking about the PyTorch, so what is a PyTorch? PyTorch is an open source, deep learning framework, which is used for the training, which is… which is basically being used for training the
Sunny: Sorry, which is being used for writing a code from scratch for any LLM, okay? For any sort of a LLM.
Sunny: Right? So with that, you can write that. You can write the code from scratch for any LLM. We have already coded the transformer, but you can code any LLM using that. Now, we have one more alternative framework. Can you tell me, guys, what is the name of that alternative framework?
Sunny: So, we're talking about the framework that is called the TensorFlow.
Sunny: TensorFlow.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: TensorFlow is one of the framework.
Sunny: Which is an alternative of what, which is an alternative of the PyTorch. Now, guys, if we're talking about… if we're talking about…
Sunny: We're talking about the deep learning-based coding, right? One more thing, guys. This TensorFlow, actually, it is coded by the Google.
Sunny: And this PyTorch, actually, it is coded by whom? This PyTorch, it is coded by Meta.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Getting my point?
Sunny: So this PyTorches is coded by the meta, and this TensorFlow, actually, it is coded by whom? This is coded by the TensorFlow.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, if we're talking about the hugging phase, okay? We're talking about the hugging phase. So, hugging Face, actually, it is providing you the LLM.
Sunny: Hugging Face is providing you what? Hugging Face is providing you the LLM. But that LLM is coded somewhere, right? That LLM is trained… is being trained somewhere, okay? So, Hugging Face is having one library that is called the Sentence Transformer.
Sunny: Right? So, Hugging Face also coded a different, different, hugging Face also coded a different, different, LLM from scratch.
Sunny: Okay? And most of the LLM is available over the Hugging Face Hub.
Sunny: Right? Hugging Face Hub, actually, it is a repository where anyone can upload the LLM. Even I can code my… even I can code my LLM, and I can upload over there.
Sunny: Right? Even I can code my LLM, and I can upload over there. So, we're talking about the hugging phase, guys. So, whenever we're talking about the hugging phase, right? So…
Sunny: this hugging phase, having a different, different modules, like sentence transformer, or several other modules. So, the low-level coding have been done, whatever low-level coding have been done over the hugging phase, so mainly the low-level coding have been done using the PyTorch, or using the TensorFlow.
Sunny: So we're talking about the deep learning, and deep learning, if we are coding anything from scratch, right, so either we are using PyTorch, or we are using TensorFlow. I have given you one code from scratch that is a transformer, and if you will check out with the transformer, right, so that code has been coded using the PyTorch itself.
Sunny: Right? So guys, if we are coding anything inside the deep learning from scratch, so either we are using PyTorch, or we are using TensorFlow.
Sunny: Now, which one? Which one is a good one, right? So, TensorFlow is a good one, or PyTorch is a good one. So, I would suggest you, if you wanted to learn anything, guys, so you can focus on the PyTorch. But again, it is not required as of now.
Sunny: Because as of now, we have to mainly focus on the generative AI side. And if we're talking about the generative AI, so there are these RAG agents, MCP, guardrails.
Sunny: Okay, and couple of fine-tuning concept is required very much, right? It is a… it is an important one. So, coding from scratch using PyTorch, coding from scratch using PyTorch using… sorry, coding from scratch using PyTorch, right? Whether we are going to be code the neural network, or we are going to be code the transformer, or any LLM, it is not required.
Sunny: Getting my point? Because we can access the LLM from the variety of the sources, and see, we… still, we are not going to be train our LLM. We are not going to be train our LLM from scratch.
Sunny: Okay, so we're talking about the OpenAI, Google Gemini, or any other company, how they have coded their… how they have coded their LLM. So, either they have used the PyTorch framework, they have used a TensorPlayer framework, and along with that, we have other type of frame… other framework also, with that, we can code the LLM from scratch, okay? And even can company develop their own framework for coding… for coding the LLM from scratch.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, if you want to code anything from scratch in a deep learning, in that case, either you can use the PyTorch, or you can use the
Sunny: But my recommendation would be the PyTorch, because it is easy to use, and easily you can learn. It is just an optional one, if you wanted to deep dive into the deep learning framework, where we are doing a coding from scratch, okay? One example I already shared, that is a transformer one, so you can explore that part. Got it, guys? Great. So, before starting with the hugging Face, I just have to give you this disclaimer, because yesterday I have seen a couple of
Sunny: quotient with respect to the PyTorch.
Sunny: So, over here, I have clarified that specific question related to the PyTorch, okay? Now, guys, if we're talking about the fine-tuning.
Sunny: If we're talking about the fine-tuning.
Sunny: So, for the fine-tuning, guys, we are going to be using two frameworks.
Sunny: The first framework is going to be Hugging Phase.
Sunny: And second framework is going to be Unsloth, okay? This Hugging Face is a very older framework, right? It is an old framework.
Sunny: And, this hugging face having lots many things. I will show you so many, different, different things over here.
Sunny: And then the latest in the advanced framework is an Unslot. This is really good, guys, and even most of the company are using this Unslot framework for training the model in a real time. So if you wanted to fine-tune your model in a real time, right, in that case, you can use this onslot. It is very amazing, and it will take a very less memory.
Sunny: And, basically, easily you can train your, and easily, basically, what you can do, you can train your model, okay? You can fine-tune your model. Now, we're talking about the fine-tune, guys. So, in the fine-tuning, retraining is required, right? Retraining of the model is required. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So, we're talking about the training of the LLM, right? So, for that, we require the GPU.
Sunny: Okay, so we required what, guys? We required the GPU over here.
Sunny: Now, a couple of people are having GPU, some of the people are not having GPU, and some of the people, they don't even know about the GPUs, okay? So, to run the training inside the local system is not feasible for everyone. So, we'll have to find out some common way, right, for training the model. So here, guys, what we are going to do, we are going to be export the Google Colab.
Sunny: So, I will show you how you can perform the coding inside the Google Collab. So, we'll configure the Google Collab, and Google Collab is not only one of the options, we have some other option also, but it is the easiest option.
Sunny: Okay? If you will ask to me, Sunny, which is the easiest option for performing a training, so I would suggest to you Google Collab is one of the best and the easiest option for performing that training, right? Then we have some other option also, so I will show you the RunPod also, using the RunPod.
Sunny: you can perform the training, right? Even, along with the… see, beside to this Google Collab, you can configure the Kegel notebook also. So Kegel is also providing you some support of the GPU as well.
Sunny: Okay? So if you wanted to… if you wanted to perform some smaller training, or training for the learning, right? So in that case, you can go for the Google Collab, or you can go for the Kegel notebook.
Sunny: But if you wanted to do the production-grade training, right, so in that case, you can configure the run pod, you can configure some other, different kind of GPU, right? And even, cloud is also providing with a GPU.
Sunny: So whether you're talking about the AWS, or GCP, or Azure, right? So every cloud is providing you the GPU. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay? Even Lightning AI is also having an option. Correct, Maya. So, Lightning AI is also having an option, okay? So, guys, local GPU is not required, and even… I have a local GPU, but I'm not going to use it for the training purpose, because it is not built for the training purpose, okay? That GPU is a commercial GPU. We can just use it for the, some editing, for some rendering, we can use it for some
Sunny: basically gaming purpose and all, but that particular GPU is not designed for the LLM training. For that, we required some high-end and the advanced GPU, okay? Even my GPU also can do some training, but not onto that level.
Sunny: Okay, it can only perform the basic training, because I have RTX 35070Ti GPU, right? And even I have a good VRAM also. I will show you that.
Sunny: But guys, again, we all are on same page. I'm thinking that no… everyone not having a GPU, and because of that, we are going to be… perform this, training over the, Google Colab itself. So, for this particular module, for this fine-tuning module, guys, okay, we are going to be shift our practical.
Sunny: For this fine-tuning module, guys, we are going to be shift our practical via… we are going to be shift our practical over the Google collab.
Sunny: Is it clear or not? Tell me yes or no, guys.
Sunny: Tell me yours.
Sunny: So for this fine-tuning, we are going to be shift our practical over the Google Collab. And I would not suggest you to perform this training in your local, because again, your local system is not going to be support that, even though you have a high-end GPU, until you don't have a DGX, right?
Sunny: DJX kind of system, DJX kind of… DJX… sorry, DGX kind of machine, right? Until I won't suggest you. But yeah, with Unslot, you can do it.
Sunny: with Unslot, you can do with some smaller GPU also, like I have, basically, but yeah. Again, I won't suggest you, let's use a Google Collab for the training purpose. Got it? So I will show you how to configure the Google Collab, okay?
Sunny: Now guys, let's start with the hugging phase. So, before starting with the fine-tuning, we'll have to understand the framework like hugging phase and the onslaught, and then only we can perform the fine-tuning efficiently. Okay? So, can we start with the hugging phase? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Yes, you can use the extension as well, but, that is also fine, Amit. You can configure the Google Collab in your VS Code itself. So, VS Code is also providing you an extension. Here, you can search the Google.
Sunny: collab, okay? So once you will search the Google Collab, you will get that specific extension, and you can connect the GPU from here itself, right? But what we will do, guys, I will directly show you the Google Collab, right? So see, I can directly install it over here.
Sunny: And after that, what I can do, I can connect it, right? But, I will show you the main website of the Google Collab, and over there itself, we are going to be create a GPU, okay? Sorry, we are going to be create a notebook, and we are going to be configure a GPU over there. Understood?
Sunny: Great. Because here, we'll have to do some setting and all, even though… even I have not used inside my local itself, right? But if you're willing to use, you can, basically.
Sunny: Now, let's do one thing.
Sunny: let's understand about the hugging phase, right? So, what is a hugging phase? So, are we going to be having more session on luncheon? Yes, we are going to be having more session on lanction. In the right chapter, we'll discuss about that, okay?
Sunny: So, can we fine-tune OpenAI and the other LLM also? Yes, we can fine-tune those LLM also, but again, we cannot directly download those weights. So, those APIs is directly providing us some classes, some methods. We can fine-tune from there itself, okay? Using those classes and method itself, we can directly fine-tune.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: Should we code simultaneously? Don't… no, don't code simultaneously. You can just hear to me right now, listen to me carefully. Later on, you can write a code, okay? So, can we switch fine-tuning between different, different LLM? Yes, you can switch fine-tuning with a different LLM. You can put, you can use any LLM for the fine-tuning. Got it?
Sunny: when to choose fine-tuning and when to choose RAG, you will automatically get that, okay? Once we'll come to that part, automatically you will get that. That is not a very tough question, okay? It is a very self-explanatory question. Self,
Sunny: like, by yourself only you can understand this one, if you know the basic and the fundamental of that fine-tuning in the RAG, okay? So, Seva, give some time to yourself, let me come to the rag as well, automatically you will get it, okay? Great.
Sunny: Now, guys, let's, discuss about the hugging phase, okay? So, in the previous classes also.
Sunny: We are going to be this, we are going to be discussing this Hugging Face in a little detail, and we'll see that what all things we have inside the Hugging Face, right? So, first of all, guys, what you have to do, you have to, open the Hugging Face website, right? So, just write Hugging Face on your browser, do it, guys, fast.
Sunny: And open what? Open, the website of the Hugging Face, okay? Now, once you will open the website of the Hugging Face, so here you will get a different, different option.
Sunny: Right? So you will get a different, different option over the hugging phase. The one is going to be model, the second is going to be data set, third is going to be space, second… fourth is going to be bucket, doc, pricing, login, and sign up.
Sunny: So, are you able to see all these options over the hugging Face? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: Yes or no? Are you able to see all these options over the hugging Face? Yes. Now, if you will click over the model, guys, so here.
Sunny: you will get… so here what you will get, you will get a different, different model. So it is some kind of repository, right, where someone has uploaded their model. Even I can train my model, and I can also upload it. Getting my point?
Sunny: I can show you, basically, so if I'm going to be logging the Hugging Face over here, I can show you that what model I have uploaded over here. So, you can train your model, you can upload over here, you can fine-tune your model, you can upload over here.
Sunny: So anyone can tune their model, anyone can train the model, and they can upload it over the hugging phase, right? And then community can utilize that model. Getting my point?
Sunny: So, it is similar to the GitHub only. So, over the GitHub, what we can do? We can develop the code, we can develop the application, and we can upload it over there. And then, anyone can download that code, anyone can pull that code, anyone can clone that code, right? And anyone can utilize that particular code, okay?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, you can see, so if I wanted to show you my model to all of you, that model I have uploaded over here, so I will have to go inside my profile, right? So, once I will open my profile, so here you will see that this is the model, basically, which I uploaded.
Sunny: Can you see all this model, guys? Yes or no? So if I'm going to be open any sort of a repo, let's say if I'm going to be open this particular repository, so inside this particular repository, you will get my model, which I have uploaded over here. This is one of my repository, let me show you the model, where I have uploaded, okay?
Sunny: So, here is the model, guys. So, there, basically, you will see all the files and all. So, as of now, we just have one file over here. Let me show you the other repository, where basically you will get the model tensor file, okay?
Sunny: So, tiny chatbot DPO. Now, if I'm going to show you the files and version, so over here, you will see the files.
Sunny: So, this is the model, guys, which is available as a safe tensor, save tensor format. It is just a binary format. Okay, in the binary format, basically, what we have done, we have compressed the model, right? And see, guys, over here, the model is available. Can you see this model?
Sunny: Everyone is able to see this model, guys. Adapter model, safe tensor. So, save tensor is a binary file, and in the form of this binary file, the model is available.
Sunny: Okay? So, whenever, we'll upload the model, now over here, you can see the size of the model, 4.25MB, okay? Now, this is my tokenizer model, and this is some other file, some configuration file, right? So, this JSON file, actually, it is some of the configuration file. Inside that, we will be having some configuration with respect to our model.
Sunny: So in the same way, basically, you can create your own repository, and there you can upload your own dataset, you can upload your own model. So let's say if I'm going to be open this particular repository, or here also.
Sunny: you will find out something. So here, basically, see, as of now, I don't have anything, but yeah, here you will see this initial file, right? So this GitHub is nothing, basically. It is similar to the hugging phase, where we can create a repository in a similar way, like, we are creating over the hugging phase.
Sunny: And there, we can upload the model. And anyone can download the model, and anyone can utilize that particular model.
Sunny: Now, we are going to be code any model from scratch, guys, now tell me which framework we will be using for that. If we are going to be code anything from scratch, then which framework we are going to be use.
Sunny: If we are going to be code any model from scratch, in that case, we can utilize either PyTorch, or we can utilize the TensorFlow, okay? So I hope, guys, this thing is clear, and this, Hugging Face interface is a self-explanatory, self-explanatory
Sunny: basically interface, okay? So, easily you can understand everything over here. Now, guys, let's say, so, over here, guys, see.
Sunny: If you will go inside the document, so inside the document, basically you will find out the different, different document. So, you will find out the hub, you will find out the hub Python library, you will find out the CLI task, right? You will find out the different other documentation, so these are some other documentation, transformer, diffuser, dataset, Evaluate.
Sunny: Okay, now these are the different other documentation for the different kind of tasks. Now, here you will find out some extra, some extra library, or some extra framework, like Gradio, Chat UI, Distil Label, Xnet, Leaderboard, okay, RGLIA,
Sunny: AutoTrain, small agent, Tracio. So, these are some different other framework.
Sunny: Now, guys, in the previous classes, I discussed one of the framework, I discussed one of the library from the Hugging Face that was a transformer, sentence transformer. So, tell me, guys, in the embedding chapter, did we discuss about the sentence transformer? Have you gone through with the sentence transformer, this one?
Sunny: So, inside the sentence transformer repository, we have a different, different models, okay? So, if you will check, guys, you will find out hundreds of models inside the sentence transformer library D.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: So I've shown you the different model, via the sentence transformer library, and I've shown you how to fetch that model, okay? How to fetch that particular model.
Sunny: Now, apart from this one, this Hugging Face is having one very important library. Under that, you will find out all the different, different LLM. So, that library name is what? Transformer. Now, what have been written over here is state-of-art AI model for PyTorch.
Sunny: Can you see this particular heading? Tell me yes or no. It's state-of-art AI model for PyTorch. So, under this transformer library, you will find out the different, different model, different, different LLM model, right, which is specifically coded from scratch using the PyTorch library.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, under this transformer library, you will get the different, different model, different, different what, different, different, AI model, okay, or the large language model, which is specifically coded, which is specifically coded using the PyTorch, okay?
Sunny: Hugging Face haven't… have not coded every model, but yes, Hugging Face is hosting those models, right? Couple of models is coded by the Hugging Face, right, from scratch, many open source models, which is being provided by the… which is being provided to the community.
Sunny: But yeah, many of the model directly is not coded by the Hugging Face, right? It is uploaded by the community, right? And those models is also available under this transformer library. So we can download that model in our local, we can keep that model in our local, and we can utilize that, right? So you can explore this particular library, that is a transformer one. Now, along with that, guys, you will find out some other library also, that is Dataset, Evaluate, Tokenizer.
Sunny: Right? So this is also a very important library. If you wanted to start your LLM fine-tuning journey, then you will have to explore this particular library.
Sunny: Now, apart from this one, you will find out some other advanced library, right? So, other advanced library, like Pep, Accelerate, Optim, Optimum, TRL, right? Save Tensor, Bits and Bytes. So, these are… LightL is also there, this is for the evaluation purpose, right? So, these are all our other library for what… for the LLM fine-tuning.
Sunny: So these are the core library, okay, with that, you can load the data, you can load the model, but whenever we are talking about the latest fine-tuning, the LLM fine-tuning, the advanced fine-tuning, in that case, you will have to go through with all this library. Like PAP, using the PAP, we can implement the DORA, LoRa, okay?
Sunny: If we're talking about the TRL, using that, we can implement the reinforcement learning, right? If we're talking about the safe tensor, so we can,
Sunny: We can basically export the weight, okay, in a binary format. If we're talking about the bits and bytes, so using that, we can perform the quantization, okay? So these are some library which we can utilize for what? For the LLM fine-tuning. So if you will go inside the document section, you will get the documentation of each and every library over here.
Sunny: So tell me, guys, this part is clear to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny: Yeah, sentence transformer is for the embedding, this particular library, and transformer for the LLMs, okay? Here they have mentioned, clearly mentioned.
Sunny: If this part is clear, just let me know in the chat so that I can proceed further. Tell me, guys, fast.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Great, Amit is simply… yeah, Amit, don't worry, I'll do that, no? Why you are worrying about all this thing, hmm?
Sunny: I'll discuss that, okay? So, let's discuss couple of points, couple of theoretical point about the hugging Face, and then, guys, I will come to the practical of that. So, here I mentioned couple of points related to the hugging Face. I hope it is visible.
Sunny: So, guys, if we're talking about the hugging face.
Sunny: what is the hugging phase? What do you understand with the hugging phase? Just read out this particular line, you will get that. So we're talking about the hugging phase.
Sunny: So, Hugging Face is an AI company that provides a complete ecosystem
Sunny: for the AI development. Is this line clear to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny: So, what is a Hugging Face, guys? It is an AI company.
Sunny: Okay? Hugging Face is what? Hugging Face is an AI company. It is similar to the Langchain.
Sunny: Now, if we're talking about the lang chain.
Sunny: So, Langchen is being used for what guys tell me? Langchen is being used mainly for the RAG-based application.
Sunny: And for the agent tech application.
Sunny: Okay? For the agent tech application. But if we're talking about the hugging Face, guys, so if I wanted to do the development in AI from scratch, okay, if I wanted to perform the fine-tuning.
Sunny: Okay? In that case, basically, we are going to… what? We are going to be use Hugging Face.
Sunny: Right? So, if I wanted to perform mainly including training LLM from scratch, so if I wanted to train LLM from scratch, right? So, for that, basically, we are going to be using PyTorch kind of library.
Sunny: If you are going to be perform the fine-tuning, evaluation, or if you wanted to host the application, it is supporting some part of the hosting as well, so it is providing one specific service that is called the Hugging Face Space.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Over the Hugging Face space, basically, we can host our application also. Not completely, but yeah, till some extent, till some point, we can host it.
Sunny: It is not very scalable, but yeah, it is like a workable thing. It is a workable solution. So if you are going to use the Hugging Face ecosystem, Hugging Face Enterprise system, okay, in that case, we can utilize this option also, that is a Hugging Face space.
Sunny: there we can host our application. So, if we're talking about the Hugging Face, guys, tell me what is a Hugging Face? It is an AI company which is providing us a complete ecosystem for the AI development.
Sunny: Mainly including training LLM from scratch, okay? So mainly including training LLM from scratch, that we can do using the PyTorch, okay? And Hugging Face is also supporting in that a little bit, but mainly we're talking about the fine-tuning, evaluation purpose, okay? So in that case, this Hugging Face is helping us a lot.
Sunny: So here I have written, almost the entire modern LLM fine-tuning industry workflow revolves around the Hugging Face ecosystem.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, Hugging Face is providing us a model
Sunny: That model, basically, we can download in our system, and that model we can fine-tune for our purpose, okay? For our purpose, right? So whatever purpose we have, whatever specific task we have.
Sunny: So, related to that specific task, related to that specific purpose, we can fine-tune that specific model. So, Hugging Face, basically is playing a very vital role if we wanted to fine-tune any model, and the entire fine-tuning industry is evolving around the Hugging Face only, around the Hugging Face ecosystem only.
Sunny: Understood? Is this thing clear to all of you? Great. Now, guys, if we're talking about… see, in modern hugging phase.
Sunny: In modern Hugging Face ecosystem, right, most important library, what are most important library we have?
Sunny: So, if you go to modern LLM fine-tuning, okay, so you need to, like, you need to focus on this specific library, which I written over here. So, if your goal is to perform the modern LLM fine-tuning, in that case, you can basically focus here. In that case, basically, you can focus over the transformer library.
Sunny: You can focus over the dataset library, you can focus over the…
Sunny: the tokenizer library, theft library, accelerate, TRL, bits and Bytes, Save Tensor, Evaluate, and LightEL. So if your goal is to perform the modern LLM fine-tuning, so you need to learn all this library. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay? So this particular library is very… this particular library is very important if you wanted to perform the LLM fine-tuning.
Sunny: Right? Now, if we're talking about the hugging phase, so what our main component we have?
Sunny: So, Hugging Face is providing us Hugging Face Hub.
Sunny: Okay? So, Hugging Face is providing us Hugging Face Hub.
Sunny: It is similar to the GitHub.
Sunny: Okay, so over the GitHub, basically, you can… anyone can upload the code.
Sunny: Anyone can upload their application.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: over the GitHub, anyone can upload their application.
Sunny: their application.
Sunny: So, in the same way, basically, we're talking about the Hugging Face Hub. So, over here, anyone can upload there, anyone can upload what, anyone can upload what, anyone can upload their model.
Sunny: Okay, so you can code this particular model from scratch in PyTorch.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: You can code this particular model in PyTorch, you can code this particular model in TensorFlow.
Sunny: And you can upload that particular model where over the hugging phase, right?
Sunny: Along with this Hugging Face hub, right, where you can have a model and all, along with that, it is providing you one more thing, that is a data set, okay, data set hub.
Sunny: Dataset Hub.
Sunny: So, along with the model, guys, you will find out a different, different data set also.
Sunny: So you will find out a different, different data set, which is uploaded by the community, and even you can prepare your own data set, and you can upload it for the community, okay? So community can utilize that.
Sunny: So either you can upload in a CSV file, in a JSON file, in a Parquet file, in a different, different, other format, you can upload. Now, Hugging Face is providing you one more thing, that is called the Hugging Face Space, okay? So let me write over here, Hugging Face Space.
Sunny: Now, what is a Hugging Face space, guys? So, this Hugging Face space isn't a thing. There, basically, you can host your app.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So there, basically, you can host your app.
Sunny: We're talking about the Hugging Face space, so you can host your app. So, Hugging Face is what? So, Hugging Face is nothing, it is an AI company.
Sunny: Right? So we're talking about the Hugging Face, it is an AI company. So, these are the main components of the Hugging Face. One is the Hugging Face Hub, second is the dataset Hub, and third is the Hugging Face space. Getting my point? Now, for earning the money, guys, for earning the money, Hugging Face is providing the Hugging Face Enterprise also.
Sunny: Hugging Face is providing the Hugging Face Enterprise also.
Sunny: Okay? Now, Hugging Face Enterprise is a paid subscription.
Sunny: Where, actually, you can purchase their paid subscription, and you can take a help of the Hugging Face developer or the Hugging Face team for deploying or for running your solution.
Sunny: Right? It is for the industry purpose. Now, guys, Hugging Face is widely supporting us in a LLM fine-tuning also.
Sunny: Hugging Face is widely supporting us in our LLM fine-tuning also. So, LLM fine-tuning isn't a thing, it is just a retraining of the LLM.
Sunny: It is what guys tell me, it is a retraining of the LLM.
Sunny: So if we're talking about the Hugging Face, if we're talking about the LLM fine-tuning, so it is nothing, it is a retraining of the LLM, and for that, Hugging Face is providing us these many library
Sunny: these many what, these many library. Getting my point? So, Hugging Face is providing us these many services, Hugging Face Hub, Dataset Hub, Hugging Face Space, right? And along with that, Hugging Face is mainly supporting us in L&M fine-tuning. We can retrain our model, we can retrain our LLM model.
Sunny: Okay? And for that, it is providing us these many libraries, transformer, dataset, Tokenizer, PAP, Accelerator, TRL, bits and Bytes, Save Tensor, Evaluate, and the light eval. Making sense to all of you? Is this part clear? Is this slide is clear or not?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: If it is clear, you can let me know in the chat so that I can proceed further. Perfect? Great.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, see, let's discuss a couple of more things. So, we're talking about the evaluation metrics, so you can perform the evaluation using these particular metrics, okay? You can get the accuracy, F1 score, blue score, rough score, perplexity score, and several benchmark score. So, this particular score, basically, you can achieve using the evaluate library.
Sunny: Okay? It is directly providing you that particular formula, that particular function, and it is having one more latest library that is called the Light Evel.
Sunny: Okay? This light eval. So we can discuss this evaluation matrices, even we have one specific chapter for the evaluation, so I… even I can discuss this evaluation matrices over there as well. Getting my point?
Sunny: Right? Now, there is one more point which I have mentioned over here. So, native versus outsider library. What is the meaning of it? Can anyone tell me what I'm trying to say over here? Native versus outsider library.
Sunny: So, now here is an interesting point, right? Not every tool originally built by the hugging phase. Now, tell me, guys, what is a hugging phase?
Sunny: What is a hugging phase?
Sunny: Hugging Face is nothing, it is a AI company.
Sunny: Right? AI company. Now, Hugging Face, mainly working for what? Mainly working for the community.
Sunny: community, right? Hugging Face, basically, it's providing us most of the thing, which is an open source one.
Sunny: Hugging Face, mostly providing us the open source thing, whether it's a model or the data set, right? They are not charging anything for that.
Sunny: But guys, every library, every library is not natively built by the Hugging Face, okay? So let's see some of the native library, which is mainly built by the Hugging Face, and let's see the difference of the library, which is not built by the Hugging Face, but still, it is a part of the Hugging Face ecosystem.
Sunny: Getting my point, right? So, let's see over here. So, here you can see Transformer, dataset, Tokenizer, PAP, Accelerator, TRL, Diffuser, Evaluate, Optim, SafeTensor. So, this library, actually, it is natively built by the Hugging Face.
Sunny: Okay? So it is natively built by the Hugging Face developer.
Sunny: whatever documentation I have shown you over the Hugging Face, right, over the Hugging Face website. So there… you must have seen this particular docu… this particular library name, right? So this library is natively built by the Hugging Face. But guys, there is some other library also, which is not part of the Hugging… which is not developed by the Hugging Face developer.
Sunny: But still, it is part of the Hugging Face ecosystem. We can directly utilize it from the Hugging Face ecosystem.
Sunny: The library is the bits and bytes, okay? Sentence-type transformer library is not a main native library of the Hugging Face. It is built by someone else, but yeah, it is part of the Hugging Face ecosystem, right? And there's some other library, like Tim, Agilia, Displayable, Gradio, and all.
Sunny: So, this particular library is built by someone else, but still we are using it inside the Hugging Face ecosystem. Getting my point? So, the ecosystem is integrated, those libraries, even if the ownership is the different one.
Sunny: Understood? Tell me yes or no. Is this thing is being clear to all of you?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: So this is some information, some extra information which I'm providing to you, right? Now, guys, if we're talking about the LLM fine-tuning.
Sunny: LLM fine-tuning, so which library is ruling over there?
Sunny: Which library is ruling over there? Natively, which platform is ruling over there?
Sunny: So, over there, basically.
Sunny: this Hugging faces ruling, right? And all the other library, whatever we have, whether it's the Unsloth, Right?
Sunny: Whether it's an onslaught, or… have you heard about the Llama Factory?
Sunny: Have you heard about the Llama Factory guys? Tell me yes or no. Then we have some other library, like the Axolotl, right? So this library, actually, natively, this library, this is the other library, actually, it is built on top of the Hugging Face ecosystem only.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: There is some optimization, basically, they have done.
Sunny: there is some optimization they have done over the hugging phase, okay? And after that only, they have built up this unslot library, Llama factor library, and the axolotl, and the other library, basically. So the base of the LLM fine-tuning, from where it is coming, it is coming from the hugging phase only.
Sunny: Right? Now, if we're talking about the RAG and agents, RAG and agents, if we're talking about the RAG and agents, so which framework is ruling the market right now? Which open source framework is ruling the market right now? Now, here, guys, one more thing, one more thing, basically, I would like to highlight over here.
Sunny: One more thing, basically, is nothing. So this hugging phase is an open source.
Sunny: This Hugging Face is the open source, right? Now, how they are earning the money? So, they are earning the money from the Hugging Face enterprises.
Sunny: enterprises, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys, if we're talking about the RAC, or Agentic framework, now there are also one libraries ruling to the market, that is called the Langchain.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Langchain.
Sunny: That is called the Langchain. So it is providing us the different, different services. This Langchain is providing the different, different services, like Langraph.
Sunny: Right? It is providing the different, different services, like Langosmith.
Sunny: Okay? It is providing the different, different other surveys, like, let's say, LangFuse.
Sunny: Right? Now, over here, there is one more interesting point about the langchain, so it is also an open source framework.
Sunny: This line chain is also an open source framework.
Sunny: Okay, now how this line chain is earning money? So, this line is earning money from their enterprise solutions.
Sunny: for the enterprise, basically,
Sunny: For the enterprise packages, right? So, mainly they are charging from the… mainly they are charging from the Langes Smith side.
Sunny: Langraph is completely open source, and the Langchain framework itself is a completely open source, right? So Lang is Smith and LangFuse, basically, for that only, they are providing you some enterprise support. And from there itself, they are some… they are earning the money.
Sunny: But mainly, it is an open source, mainly it is an open source library, it is an open source framework. For what? For whom? For the community, actually, right? So it's a lang fuse, guys, let me write it correctly. It is a LangFuse.
Sunny: Lang?
Sunny: Fuse.
Sunny: Understood. Is this difference clear to all of you?
Sunny: for the LLM fine-tuning, which library is ruling, and for the RAG agents, which library is ruling.
Sunny: If this part is clear, can we move to the next slide? So, are you learning… are you enjoying the learning with me, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: I'll give you the dinner break, don't worry guys, okay?
Sunny: Yes, after some extent, Langesmith and Langfuse is a paid one. Not paid, basically, you can avail their enterprise solutions, okay? They're providing the enterprise solution also.
Sunny: Good?
Sunny: Someone is saying, we lost you, sir. No, I'm there only, no? Here, see? Look at me.
Sunny: ABR.
Sunny: Where you lost me, huh?
Sunny: Okay, fine. So, now guys, let's do one thing. Let's understand few more things. So, whenever we are going to perform the fine-tuning using the hugging Face, okay, so we have to follow all these steps, whatever step I have written over the blackboard.
Sunny: Okay? So let's, do one thing. Let's, let me give you the quick walkthrough of all this step, and then we'll perform all this entire step, okay, this entire step in a spectacle.
Sunny: Practically, I have shown you this entire thing, right? So, over here, guys, you can see.
Sunny: All these steps are the necessary whenever we are going to perform the fine-tuning. So, what is the first thing, guys? What is the first thing?
Sunny: The first thing is the dataset library, or the custom dataset. So, if we wanted to perform the fine-tuning, guys, definitely the dataset is required.
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Dataset is required. So the dataset, basically, we can get from the dataset library of the Hugging Face, okay? And even we can use our own custom dataset for the fine-tuning. That is also completely fine.
Sunny: So, if any dataset is available over the Hugging Face already, which we wanted to use, we can utilize that data set. Otherwise, we can use any custom dataset, okay? So this is the first thing, this is the first point. Now, after that, this preprocessing and cleaning. So, if any preprocessing, or if any cleaning is required, right, so we'll perform that.
Sunny: We'll perform that part.
Sunny: Right? If any training or if any preprocessing will be required, we'll do that. Now, after that, guys, we'll require the tokenization of the data set.
Sunny: So, tokenization of the dataset is very much important, because we have to convert our data into the token. Now, whenever I was teaching you the transformer, right, so at the time of the transformer, I already told you
Sunny: So, how we pass the data to the transformer? So, we pass always… we always pass the data to the transformer in terms of the tokens, right? So, we'll have to be convert our data into the tokens. Then, guys, model is required, so transformer-based model will be required. So, here we'll have to take our LLMs, okay, which we wanted to fine-tune.
Sunny: Then, guys, on top of that, we require the PEFT, okay, PEFT library for the LoRa adapter, right? LoRa-based training we are going to be perform, because full fine-tuning is not possible.
Sunny: Full fine-tuning is not possible, so what we'll be doing, guys, tell me, if full fine-tuning is not possible, so we'll perform the partial fine-tuning. So, PAPT is one of the techniques for performing the partial fine-tuning.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, if we wanted to perform the quantization, so for that, we have bits and bits… bits and bytes library, okay? So we can perform the quantization over there, that is called the QLORA, or Qdora, right? Anything you can say? QLORA or Qdora. DORA is one of the… one more technique for performing a
Sunny: or fine-tuning, okay? Then, guys, if I have to do the distributed training for the multiple GPUs, right, in that case, we can use this XLAT library, but again, it is an optional one.
Sunny: Again, what? It is an optional one.
Sunny: Right? Now, here, if you wanted to perform any sort of a preference tuning, right, preference alignment, so for that, we have a TRL library, with that, we can perform the RLHF, DPO, PPO, GRPO. This kind of training we can perform using the TRL library.
Sunny: Then, for the evaluation purpose, again, we have our libraries, right? EVL library and the fast eval, right? The different other library which I've shown you.
Sunny: With that, we can calculate the accuracy, blue score, rough score, perplexity, benchmarking.
Sunny: We can save the checkpoint, either we can save in a safe tensor format, or we can save it in a GGUF format also, right? GGUF or GGML format, okay? So we can utilize this binary format also for saving the model.
Sunny: Then, guys, we can push it to the hugging phase now, so this is also possible. I'll show you how to push it to the hugging phase. It is a very simple thing, right?
Sunny: Then inferencing and deployment, so after my model is ready, after, like, fine-tuning if my model is ready, my training is… train model is ready, right? So we can use it for the inferencing purpose, or we can…
Sunny: Basically, deploy it also, right? We can deploy it over the hugging phase, we can deploy it as an application over the hugging phase space also, right? And then monitoring and iteration. So what is the meaning of the monitoring and iteration?
Sunny: So monitoring-wise, basically, we can check the accuracy or the quality of the model, we can check the latency, okay, what is the latency, how much latency, how much GPU and CPU means how many resources is being consumed by the model, what is the token uses and the cost monitoring. So these, all the things, basically, comes under the monitoring, right? Then we're talking about the iteration, so iteration, basically, if we wanted to add any new data in our fine-tuning.
Sunny: If we wanted to update our load adapter, we can do that also. RLHF, DPO, right? Any preference tuning is required for the further tuning, right? So we can do that also. Any hyperparameter tuning is required, so that come into the iteration, right? We can perform the different, different iteration on our training.
Sunny: So, if we are going to be perform the fine-tuning using the hugging phase, so we are going to be perform all this step.
Sunny: We are going to be perform all the… we are going to be perform all this stuff for the… for… for the fine-tuning, right? For, for performing the fine-tuning over the custom data set.
Sunny: So, all these steps are clear. I just written all these steps over here. Later on, we are going to be… perform it, via Hugging Face modules. If these steps are clear, if the overview is clear, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Where reinforcement learning comes, the reinforcement learning comes over here. I written RLHF now, so this is the reinforcement learning, okay?
Sunny: Does guardrails comes over here? No, I don't think. So here, we are mainly talking about the training part.
Sunny: We are not talking about the, the inferencing part, right? Inferencing we can do in inferencing, right? While we are doing inferencing using that model.
Sunny: So, if the model is hallucinating, on top of that, we can implement the rack. If model is not performing well, if it is going out of the flow, right, we can implement some garders over there, but at least we should have models. So, as of now, we are talking onto the model level, the training level, actually.
Sunny: Understood?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: GGUF and GGML, actually, it is, some binary format for saving the model. Okay, GGUF, actually, GGF is a… GGML is a framework. Old, this, which one? Llama, not Llama Effector, I forgot the name. What is the name?
Sunny: of that Llama Studio, something like that, right? So in that, we can run our model as a GGUF. Even we can run it inside the Hugging Face also as a GGUF format. So it is a optimize… it is what it is a optimized,
Sunny: model format, okay? That's it.
Sunny: Right? Great. So, this is the entire, points, right? So, is this clear?
Sunny: What is the RLHF DPU? We'll discuss that, okay? We'll come to that part.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: So, this many things is required from the Hugging Face side. Now, if we're talking about rather the Hugging Face, so we have something else also. So, we're talking about Rather Hugging Face, guys. So, over here.
Sunny: See.
Sunny: Hugging Face is the foundation of the fine-tuning ecosystem. So this point I've… this point I have already discussed, okay? This point I have, I've already, told you.
Sunny: But guys, if we're talking about the unslot, right? But unslot is what? Unslot is an ultra-optimized performance layer, which is built on top of the foundation of the hugging phase, okay?
Sunny: It is a fast… it provides the faster training, lower VRAM uses, longer context training, and the cheaper fine-tuning. And it is very true, guys. So once I will give you the differences, once I will give you the, basically, once I will show you the differences between the Hugging Face versus Unsloth.
Sunny: Hugging faces off?
Sunny: Raw library, okay? Hugging Face, when I will show you the differences between the Hugging Face and the unsouth, right, in terms of practical, there you will see the, there you will see the real difference in terms of the training, right? In terms of the training timing. So, if it is taking, let's say, 30 minutes for training any model.
Sunny: So there, it will just take 5 minutes for trading the same model.
Sunny: This much of difference, actually. Divide by 10.
Sunny: It is taking less than, like, so you can directly divide by 10, okay? This timing. So this much less time is being taken by the onslaught, basically. It is very much faster. And accuracy is also not going to be dropped, okay? So that's the real difference between the hugging Face and this optimized layer that is the onslot.
Sunny: Right? Now, guys, let's discuss couple of points with respect to the onslaught also, and then we'll come to the practical of that, right?
Sunny: Now over here, guys, we are going to be entered into the onslaught.
Sunny: So, everything we have discussed so far was standard for the Hugging Face workflow.
Sunny: But whenever we are talking about the hugging phase, so there is some use issue. Use issue means, so the training is going to be slow, it's going to be consume the huge VRAM memory, okay, VRAM actually, and it is expensive. The training is expensive using the hugging phase. So we're talking about the core hugging phase, guys.
Sunny: We were talking about the co-rugging phase.
Sunny: So with that, guys, the training is very, very expensive.
Sunny: Okay? And the training is very, very slow. So, there only, this latest framework, which is called the unslot, it comes under the picture, okay? For the rescue, we have this onsloth. Now, what is the definition of the onslaught? So, the definition of the unslot is very simple. Just read out this particular definition.
Sunny: So, Unsloth is an ultra-optimized LLM fine-tuning framework which is built on top of the Hugging Face ecosystem that enables fast LoRa, Q-LoRa, RLHF training with a very low VRAM usage.
Sunny: Okay? With a very low… very low VRAM uses. So I can show you the… I can show you what… I can show you the documentation of the… I can show you the documentation of the onslaught.
Sunny: So if you will go and check directly with the Google, now just write over here, Onslaught, okay? So, once you will write the onslaught over the Google, guys, now over here, you will guide the documentation of it. So, this is the documentation of what… this is the documentation of the onslaught, okay?
Sunny: Mandeep Motan is saying, I think it would be better if you teach all… Ari, Mandeep jee, I will teach you, no? I will show you the practical also, Sarje. Everything I'll show you.
Sunny: Okay, I have that practical, but let me put something in your mind. Let me go in my flow. Okay, let me go step by step. Let me discuss some theoretical point. If you're going to be revised all the thing tomorrow, so that you can do it easily, right? Practical bidikhaine. Got it?
Sunny: So, over here, you can see, so we have our models, model model is being supported, so you can see the different, different, model, basically. It is supporting so many models for the fine-tuning purpose, right? You can use all this model, you can perform the vision fine-tuning, a different, different fine-tuning using the onslot, right?
Sunny: Now, over here, you can see the documentation. So, this is the proper documentation of the hugging… of the onslaught, basically. So, so many things, basically, they have included over here. I'll go through with this particular documentation, I'll show you everything in terms of practical, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys, apart from this one, you can see, so here is our repository, the open source repository of the onslaught, okay? So, once you will go through with this particular repository, guys, here.
Sunny: Here, guys, you will get, the complete details, right? So, what all features is being provided by the onslaught, right? You will get over here. How it is supporting in the training, right? What all extra features they are providing, they are… they are mentioning over here, okay?
Sunny: Even they are providing the UI as well, so directly you can configure so many parameters, so many things via UI itself, okay? So this repository and this document is very much important if you wanted to understand about the onslaught. Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: So I can provide you this link, so that you can go through with it, and you can check it out.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So, Unslot is a free, it is an open source one. You don't need to pay anything to the Unsloth if you're going to be used that.
Sunny: Yeah, I will keep it inside the Notion, and I will, keep that Notion node inside the GitHub itself. Don't worry about that.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Great. Now, over here, guys, you can see, so what all claim is being done by the unsloth? Let's understand that. So, we're talking about the main claims of the onsloth, right? So, onslaught, what they are saying, they are saying.
Sunny: The 2 to 3x faster training.
Sunny: Okay? The training time is going to be less. Even it's going to be used on low VRAM, okay? VRAM, basically, generally associated with a GPU.
Sunny: Now, it is going to be, train a large model, even on the free GPU. So, if you have a free GPU, like T4,
Sunny: smaller GPUs, right? Or your local GPUs, there also it can train the model.
Sunny: And real practical meaning. Means, if it is providing the faster training with a low RAM, even with a free GPU, then, yeah, it is making sense in terms of practical.
Sunny: Getting this point, yes or no?
Sunny: Yes or no, guys, tell me. Yes?
Sunny: Okay? Now, over here, guys, you can see what they are saying. For example, if a Hugging Face workflow takes 10R, okay, and 40GB RAM,
Sunny: Right? For one single training, for one single training, if a hugging Face is going to be… take this much of time, does Unslot may complete the same task within 5 hours, and within 12 to 16 GB of RAM.
Sunny: So let's take an example of the llama. So here I've taken the example of the llama, okay? And in practical, also, I can show you that. Let's say we have this particular model.
Sunny: Now, a standard Hugging Face is going to take 24GB of RAM.
Sunny: to load this model, to fine-tune that model. Now, Unslot can do the same thing within 7 to 8 GB of RAM.
Sunny: And practically, I can prove this particular thing, and they have claim it, and they have claim where they have claimed it inside the onslaught, okay? If you will go and check out with the onslaught documentation, or if you will go and check out with the onslaught GitHub, you will get it over here. You will get that claim, right? Now, guys, here you can see.
Sunny: I have mentioned one more thing over here. The most shocking feature of the Unsloth, long context training. So, it can train from 20K to 30K token.
Sunny: Right? It can train this much of token. Now, we're talking about the 30K token, guys, now tell me how many PDF pages would be there if we're talking about the 30K token.
Sunny: How many PDF pages? So, we can assume around 400 to 500 PDF pages.
Sunny: Okay, 500 to 400 PDF pages, at least this much of data being trained using the unslot in a single go.
Sunny: at least this much of data, basically, at least this much of data can be trained, in a single go using the unslot, okay? Where the standard hugging phase will give you the out-of-memory error. So here, basically, you can see some of the,
Sunny: Here are basically some of the examples, some of the results. So, let's say we have this particular model, and we have 12GB of VRAM.
Sunny: So, it can only train 28K… it can train 28K token. If we have 16GB of RAM, it can train 40K token. If we have 20GB of VRAM, we can train up to 78K token.
Sunny: If we have 18GB of VRAM, so we can train up to 33, like, 40,000K token. Okay, this much of data we can train using what? Using the unslot.
Sunny: And here you can see the comparison with the Hugging Face. Even on Hugging Face, 80GB GPU, right, only trains 28K tokens.
Sunny: Getting my point? If we're talking about the one single page, on an average, on one single page, you will get 500 to 600 token.
Sunny: Now we're talking about… now we're talking about, basically, 348K token, so it's going to be around 500 to 600 pages, at minimum.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: 500 to 600 pages. Now, we're talking about 28K token. Now, tell me, guys, in 28K token, how many pages would be there?
Sunny: How many PDF pages would be there in the 28K token? Tell me fast.
Sunny: If you're getting my point, just let me know in the chat. Just assume, just assume, just give me the, basically, one estimation, okay?
Sunny: So we're talking about the 28K token, there could be 30 to 50 pages, as an estimate… estimation we can take, okay?
Sunny: As an estimation we can take.
Sunny: So, if we have 30 to 35… if we have 30 to 40 pages, okay, if we have 30 to 30… if we have 30 to 40 pages, if we have that much of data, that much of PDF data, so tell me, guys, how much GB memory is being consumed by the… how much GB memory is being consumed by the original Hugging Face?
Sunny: So there is up to 18 GB, right? But if we're talking about the unslot, so onsloth can do the same thing within 24GB.
Sunny: Unslot can do the same thing within 24GB.
Sunny: Making sense? Yes or no?
Sunny: Okay. Now, guys, here I have written some sort of a point. Some point, basically, which is highlighting why Unsloth is faster.
Sunny: I think many of you, you were looking into this particular point. Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: Yes. So, I think many of you, you were, you must be thinking that why Unsloth is a faster one. So, Unsloth is a faster because of something, some sort of optimization they have done, right? So, let's understand that.
Sunny: Now, the question is, how this magic is happening, right? What is the answer? Answer is deep, low-level GPU optimization. So, if we're talking about the CUDA kernel, right?
Sunny: So, CUDA is a NVIDIA's low-level GPU programming layer. I discussed, right? Just now, I told you who has built this, who has built this CUDA library.
Sunny: We'll be talking about the SCUDA library, so it is built by the NVIDIA.
Sunny: Okay? So they have done some sort of optimization on top of this CUDA itself.
Sunny: Okay, on top of the scuda, that is called the specific kernel. The kernel is called the Triton kernel.
Sunny: Triton kernel.
Sunny: So, originally, the kernel name was the CUDA kernel.
Sunny: And on top of that, they have performed some level of optimization, and they have created a new kernel. The kernel name is the Triton kernel.
Sunny: And it is processing the tensor in a faster manner.
Sunny: And it is processing the transfer in a faster manner.
Sunny: Rather than this original CUDA kernel.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Is it getting clear to all of you? So, over here, you… I have mentioned some sort of a point. So, it runs on a GPU, it massively, like, processes the parallel data, it is extremely fast, and it provides the low-level control.
Sunny: So, we're talking about the Triton… so we're talking about the CUDA kernel, right? So, what is a CUDA kernel, guys? So, it is specifically designed for the GPU. It is massively training the parallel data, metrics, multiplication, and all. It is a faster one, and it is provide the low-level control, low-level authority over the GPU.
Sunny: Now, if Tritone is what? Tritone is a Python-like GPU language, okay, that generates high-level optimization over the CUDA kernel.
Sunny: high-level optimization over the CUDA kernel. So what kind of optimization they have done?
Sunny: So, internal optimization they have done. So, internally, Unsloth is using what? Custom CUDA kernels, okay? That is a Triton kernels. Even they have changed the attention mechanism also, so they have used something like Fuse Attention, right? So, updated attention mechanism.
Sunny: Updated. Attention.
Sunny: mechanism.
Sunny: Right? Updated attention mechanism, that is called the fuse attention. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now, apart from that, guys, optimized forward and the backward pass is smart check pointing.
Sunny: Even they are using the flash attention, manual backpropagation, and automatic sequence packing. So these many points, basically, they are using in the back end, in the back story, right? And because of that, the unslot is a…
Sunny: Faster one.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me fast. Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: So, if someone is going to be asked you, if someone is going to be asked you in an interview that why this Anslot is a faster, so you can mention these many points. No one is going to be asking you the internal working, we don't need to understand the internal working, right?
Sunny: So you can just say they have used the Triton kernel, they have used the Fuse and the flash retention, they are using the smart checkpointing and the auto-sequence speccing.
Sunny: auto-sequence packing. And because of that, guys, this unslot is a faster one. Making sense to all of you, yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: Making sense? Okay.
Sunny: What is the updated attention mechanism? This is the one. Now, Fuse Attention. Some kind of mechanism, basically, they have invented in a backend, right? They're a research team, right? They are an R&D team, they have invented this Fuse Attention. Flash Attention is public, you can check out with the Google itself, so if you will write Flash Attention GitHub now, you will get that.
Sunny: slash attention git up. And even you will get the Triton kernel also, let me check. I think that is also available.
Sunny: Just give me a moment, guys, wait.
Sunny: Yes, so this Triton kernel is also available, so this is the flash retention. Can you see the flash retention? This one?
Sunny: So it is, developed by the DAO AI Lab, if I'm going to check with the Triton kernel.
Sunny: Triton kernel GitHub, okay?
Sunny: So, Triton kernel GitHub, I think this is also open source. I'm not sure, but let me check if it is open source or not.
Sunny: So, Triton kernel… no, I don't think so it is an open source one.
Sunny: Triton kernel is not open source, guys, but yeah, you can check out with this, what is a Triton kernel. You will get some, okay, here is a Triton Turner tutorial.
Sunny: It is a tutorial, actually, it is not an open source one.
Sunny: Okay, now, if we're talking about the other one, length… okay, fuse attention, let me check with the fuse attention.
Sunny: Fuse Attention GitHub, okay? Fuse Attention GitHub.
Sunny: So, Fuse Attention is also open source, maybe. So, maybe here you can learn the Fuse Attention.
Sunny: So this is a fuse attention, guys. Some, tweaks over the attention itself. You can check out what is a fuse attention.
Sunny: Getting my point? Yes or no? So these kind of technology they have used in a backend, just to make it faster.
Sunny: So this theoretical point is clear to all of you.
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: this vertical point, right? So you can explore more about it, but yeah, believe me, guys, no one is going to be asking you this in a detail. No one is going to be asking you the mathematics of it.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, here.
Sunny: You can see. So the most important point, Unslot does not rely on the approximation tricks. What is the meaning of that?
Sunny: That is why accuracy loss is negligible.
Sunny: Okay. So, in the unslot, basically, you will not be able to find out much accuracy loss. Here is an example, what is an approximation. So, if I'm going to be multiplying this two things.
Sunny: I will be getting this one, okay? Now, if I'm going to be… suppress this number, this number into this number, so this is an approximate number, so…
Sunny: Unsloth is not working on this particular.
Sunny: concept.
Sunny: Okay, it is providing the full precision output with the full accuracy.
Sunny: Okay, so accuracy is also not going to be dropped inside the onslaught.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Yes or no? And this is the, like, the working behavior of the onslaught. Now, if we're talking about the onslaught. So, backend, in the backend, they are using the transformer, Paft, and TRL only, with some optimization. So, what is optimization?
Sunny: Attention optimization.
Sunny: Kernel optimization, right?
Sunny: So these are the optimization. In the back end, we have a PyTorch, CUDA, and a Triton kernel, and then it is interacting with the GPU. So this is the complete flow of the install.
Sunny: Understood, guys, yes or no? Tell me fast.
Sunny: Yes, okay. So you can go through with this entire vertical points, and then what I'll do, guys, I will show you each and everything in terms of practical.
Sunny: So, can we go for the dinner break now?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: I will provide you all these notes. You can go through with it, and you can understand about it, okay?
Sunny: Yeah.
Sunny: Fine.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so let's discuss less of the thing after the break, and after, break, basically, I will mainly focus over the practical itself.
Sunny: Thank you. And I'm pushing these notes, don't worry.
Sunny: Thank you very much.
Sunny: Okay, guys, can we start the session again? If everyone is there, please let me know.
Sunny: Great. So, did you understand, guys, what is the differences between the onslaught and the Hugging phase?
Sunny: Are these theoretical points clear to all of you? Please let me know if it is clear, so that we can proceed further, okay?
Sunny: Okay, so the differences is, like, very straightforward. They have used some sort of optimization in a backend, and because of that only, basically this unslot is a little faster one, okay?
Sunny: So, I listed all the points over here, even you can check out with the GitHub. So, the notes are updated over the GitHub.
Sunny: Just go and check with my GitHub guys, okay?
Sunny: So, this is the GitHub repository. Open the file, latest, sorry, open the latest folder.
Sunny: Now, here is our notes.
Sunny: You can go through with these entire notes, and at least you can understand whatever I have explained so far, in terms of the, in terms of the differences and all.
Sunny: Someone is saying lots of eco. Is it? I don't think so, I have an eco.
Sunny: I can clearly see on my screen.
Sunny: Okay, great. So, guys, now let's do one thing. Let's start some practical for the hugging phase, okay? And after that, guys, I will show you this pipeline, which I have shown over the Blackboard itself.
Sunny: this, was the pipeline related to the hugging phase. These many points, basically, we have to cover. If we are going to be fine-tuning any model using the hugging phase, right? So we have to focus onto this particular point.
Sunny: So these points I'll show you later on, one by one, step by step, we are going to be fine-tuning any LRM model, okay? And we'll focus onto this specific point.
Sunny: But before that, let's understand some practical thing using the hugging Face. Let's see how we can utilize the hugging Face, okay? And what all function and functionality we have over there.
Sunny: And, now what we are doing, guys, I'm going to show you that over the collab itself. So let's configure our Google Colab, and let's, do it over there, right? So, are you ready? Can we start again?
Sunny: Can we start with a practical?
Sunny: Okay, so guys, for collab, right? So, first of all, I would like to know over here how many of you, you have used the collab?
Sunny: Have you used the collab ever? Have you gone through with a Google collab? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So, many of you, you have used the collab, and some of you, maybe you haven't used the collab, right? So, if you haven't used the collab, that is fine, don't worry about that.
Sunny: Now, let's do one thing. Okay, so let's do one thing, guys. First of all, open the collab, and open the new notebook over there.
Sunny: So just write the Google Collab, where you have to write that. So you just have to write the Google Collab in your browser.
Sunny: So here, I'm going to write Google.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Google Colab.
Sunny: Now, see, guys, once I write the Google collab, I'll get a first website, right? So, there itself, I can create my notebook, this one. Even I can provide you the link in the chat itself, so that you can open it.
Sunny: Now, after opening the Google Collab, guys, so you will get this kind of interface. Are you getting this kind of interface? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: If you see, this kind of interface means everything is, everything is fine, right? You are good to go. Now, here, guys, you will find out a couple of options, right? So, the basic option is you can create a new notebook here.
Sunny: Once you will click on the new notebook, you will be able to create a new notebook, okay? The second, basically, you can create a notebook inside a Google Drive, right?
Sunny: You can connect your Google Drive, so whatever you have inside the Google Drive, you can directly get it over here. You can connect with your GitHub, so directly you can create a notebook over the GitHub, or you can access the GitHub resources also inside the
Sunny: Inside where? Inside the Google Colab, okay? The next thing, basically, if you wanted to upload any notebook from your local to the collab.
Sunny: So you can upload from here itself. So what you can do, guys, you can simply click on this upload button. So you can simply click on this upload button, you can browse the file.
Sunny: Okay, and after that, guys, what you can do, you can upload your notebook from your local as well. So all these points are clear to all of you, tell me yes or no.
Sunny: All these points are clear to all of you. If yes, we can quickly go ahead. So, I already created a notebook. Here you can see this notebook, Hugging Face Live Class, and or else what you can do, you can create a new notebook, okay? Both is fine.
Sunny: So, let's say if I'm going to create a new notebook, what I'll do, I'll click on this new notebook. So, see, my new notebook is created.
Sunny: I hope everyone is able to see this new notebook. If someone is not able to see, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Everyone is able to see this new notebook. It is a Jupyter notebook. So we were… we were working in the Jupyter notebook in our local earlier. So this is my local Jupyter notebook, guys.
Sunny: Right? This one.
Sunny: So if I can show you the previous notebook, so this was my local Jupyter notebook, okay?
Sunny: Just a second, let me open that.
Sunny: This is a notebook.
Sunny: How we can identify this is the notebook, how we can identify that this is my notebook.
Sunny: What's the extension of that file? The extension of that file is .ipynb, okay?
Sunny: The extension of that file is… the extension of that file is .ipYNB. So, if the extension of the file is .ipYNB, so we can say, this is my notebook. Getting my point? I hope you're getting. Now, what I'm doing, guys, so here I have created a notebook. This is, again.ipYNB file only.
Sunny: So, what I can do, I can write over here.
Sunny: Hugging face.
Sunny: Explore.
Sunny: live class.
Sunny: Right? So, we'll perform some practical using the hugging phase. I'll write some code over here, and after that, guys, we'll try to fine-tune our model. So, fine-tuning, maybe, I will show you in the next class. Today, we'll explore a little bit of the hugging phase, okay?
Sunny: And then after doing the fine-tuning via hugging phase, I will show you the fine-tuning via Unsloth, right? So first, fine-tuning via hugging phase, and then fine-tuning via Unsloth. Got it?
Sunny: Now, guys, what I'm doing over here, see.
Sunny: Here, just a second, let me do one thing.
Sunny: Okay…
Sunny: Just a second, guys, okay?
Sunny: Yeah. So here, guys, first of all, what we have to do? We have to connect with the, we have to connect with what? We have to connect with the GPU, right? So, how you will get an option for the GPU? How you will get an option for what? For the GPU.
Sunny: So, for getting our option for the GPU, you just need to click on this runtime, okay? Just click on this runtime. Now, after clicking on this runtime, here you will get an option for changing a runtime type, right? So, just click on this change runtime type. So, you will get a different, different GPU option.
Sunny: Are you able to see the GPU option?
Sunny: Yeah, I will close the session by 10.35, or maybe 10.40.
Sunny: But after 10.30 only, I will close. Got it, Rahul? So, guys, here you will get the different, different GPU option. Now, tell me, guys, every GPU is enabled for me as of now?
Sunny: Have I accessed of every GPU over here?
Sunny: No, right? So I'm… I can only see one free GPU, that is T4 GPU. So in free tire, actually, I will just get only one single GPU.
Sunny: But let's say if I wanted to enable the other GPU as well. So, how I can enable the other GPU? So for enabling the other GPU, you can see over here, you can see the option over here. The option is the purchase additional compute unit.
Sunny: So, once you will click over here, guys, you will get the different, different, basically plans from the Google side, okay? From the Google Collab side.
Sunny: So, as of now, we are using the free variants, okay? It is having the Google Collab Pro variant.
Sunny: Where, basically, the charges is around $11 per month, around 1000 rupees. So, here you will get the 100 compute units per month, right? Then you will get a faster GPU, upgraded GPU, and the more memory.
Sunny: Right? Then CoLab Pro, it is, around $58, so $58 means around $5,000 to $6,000.
Sunny: Here, basically, you will get all this, advantage, okay? And then, collab enterprise. So, if you are working, basically, for your enterprises, for the real-time solution, then you can avail the collab enterprise also.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny: Yes, if it is making sense to all of you, then let me know in the chat. If you wanted to upgrade, you can upgrade. Okay? Now, how to check that? So, just go through with the runtime.
Sunny: Right? Now, after the runtime, guys, just click on the change runtime type. Now, here is a purchase additional compute unit. So, once you will click over here, you will get that particular option.
Sunny: Understood? Making sense?
Sunny: Okay, great.
Sunny: Now, guys, this, collab is not only one of the options, we have other options also. So, let's say if you're going to search, run pod over here, right? If you're going to be search run pod. So, here also, basically, what you can do, you can
Sunny: configure the GPU, okay?
Sunny: So, RunPod is also providing you the GPU configuration, but again, here, you will not get, that much free access. Okay, you will get a very limited free access.
Sunny: And most of the thing is going to be paid over here, right?
Sunny: So, you can check out RunPod. If you wanted to purchase the GPU via RunPod, you can purchase from here as well, okay, for the training purpose.
Sunny: Apart from this one, guys, you can purchase it from the paper space also, so paper space gradient. Once you will search this paper space gradient, you can get the GPU from here as well, okay? It is also providing you the GPUs, this paper space.
Sunny: Got it, guys? So here, also, you can get a notebook. This will also provide you the, like, GPUs for the trending purpose, for the fine-tuning purpose. Now, apart from this one, guys, we have some other option also. Let me show you that.
Sunny: So, this is one more option, that is vast AI, vast.ai, okay? So, you can purchase the GPU from here as well, for your training purpose. So, I have shown you three options. One is the Runport, second is a paper space, third is a vast.ai. So, if you are… if you wanted to do any, like, high-end competition.
Sunny: Right? Where the Google collab is not suffice, right? In that case, what you can do, you can go ahead with this particular option. This is just an alternative, basically.
Sunny: But I think your… most of the requirement is going to be fulfilled by the Google Collab itself. If it is not going to be fulfilled by the free version, you can purchase a new, paid version, okay, from the Google Collab… Google Collab. So here, your… most of the requirement is going to be fulfilled.
Sunny: But again, if you wanted to explore the alternative of the Google Collab Pro, you can go through with the RunPod, you can go through with the Vast AI,
Sunny: Okay, or else you can go through with a paper space. So, these are some sort of options.
Sunny: Kegel is also one of the options. It is also providing the free GPU. Chitandar is saying Lambda.ai is also option. Yes, we have some different, different options, right? Lightning.ai is also there, from the PyTorch, which is also providing the GPU. So you will get so many different, different options. Getting my point, guys? You can export that for the GPU perspective.
Sunny: Making sense? If it is, clear, let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, how many memory is being provided by the Google Collab Pro, right? So just click on this dropdown, right? And after clicking on this drop-down.
Sunny: So, you will get the resources option, view resources. So, just click on this view resources, you will get the resources, how many resources, basically, you are getting from the
Sunny: how many resources, how much resources you are getting from the Google Collab site, okay, in a free tire. So first of all, what you will have to do, you will have to connect with your GPU, okay? So just click on the runtime, just change the runtime type, click on the GPU, okay, T4 GPU, this is a free GPU, then save it.
Sunny: and then connect with the T4. Now, once you will click on it, guys, once you will click on the connect, you will be getting the resources. This is the free available resources, which is being provided by the Google to you.
Sunny: Now, how much RAM they are providing to us?
Sunny: How much RAM they are providing to us. Tell me, guys, how many RAM they are providing to us. You can see over here.
Sunny: How many RAM they are providing to us.
Sunny: So I connected with my system, so the GPU RAM is around 15GB, okay? And the overall system RAM is around 12.7GB. And what is a runtime? Sorry, what is a disk… how much is a disk RAM? Sorry, disk memory, not a RAM.
Sunny: So it is around 112 GB, okay? And 47 GB is already occupied, 112 GB is out of 1.112GB. So 50% memory is still for us only, okay? Around 53 GB.
Sunny: So this is the disk space, this is the RAM space, system RAM, and this is the GPU RAM, that is a VRAM.
Sunny: Okay? So, GPU RAM itself is called the VRAM, right?
Sunny: Now, guys, let's do one thing. So…
Sunny: Here, let's, write, and let's see whether this is working or not. Whether this, like,
Sunny: whether, guys, this notebook is working or not. Now, where this memory is being occupied, so they have some OS and all, okay? So, if you will check it over here, so you will get some sample data, you will get the complete OS, right? Which, whatever OS they have configured over here, the Linux, basically. So, that memory is being occupied by that OS and that sample data and the other thing as well, okay?
Sunny: So this is the machine, this is the virtual machine which is being provided by the, Google itself, and you are just using it for the, you are just using it for the computation purpose, okay, in the form of notebook.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me?
Sunny: Can we deploy ActualApp using the collab? No, we cannot deploy actual app using the collab.
Sunny: CPU or T4 GPU? CPU you have inside your system now, there.
Sunny: We are using this Google Colab for the GPU only, correct?
Sunny: So, select the T4 GPU.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, what I'm doing, I'm just going to be right, print hello over here.
Sunny: See if I'll write print hello.
Sunny: Right? If everything is working fine, then I will get my response. So, are you getting your response? Please check with the collab if you're getting your response.
Sunny: If you're getting your response, then please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Okay? Now, after that, guys, what I will do, see? The secret is a big challenge.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: to maintaining a secret is a big challenge, so Google Collab is providing you that option also. You can configure the secrets over here. So, can you see this key icon?
Sunny: Can you see the key icon?
Sunny: Just click on this key icon. Now, here you can configure your secrets. So, whether you have OpenAI Secrets, whether you have OpenAI Secret, Google Gemini Secret, or you have Hugging Face Secret, any kind of secret, you can configure over there. So, in our local, where I was mentioning the secret, can anyone tell me?
Sunny: So we're talking about the local guys, so where we are mentioning that secret, where I'm going to be configuring that secret. So the secret, basically, I'm configured inside the .env file.
Sunny: Now, if you will check out the Google Collab, so it is providing you the option for configuring the secret. So, from here itself, we can directly access the secret. So, I already configured my Hugging Face secrets, now let me enable that secret so that I can access them. Okay?
Sunny: Now, over here, you will find out Hugging Face Read Token, Hugging Face Write Token, right? So, this is the important one.
Sunny: So what I'm doing, guys, so first I'm going to be import the read token, sorry, I'm going to be read the read token, and then I'm going to read the write token, okay? So, once I will click on this key icon, so it will provide me some code.
Sunny: I can copy this code, and I can paste it over here, right? Now here, what I will do, I will write my secret name, so let me write the secret name.
Sunny: So, this is my first secret, Hugging Face Reed.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: And I have one more secret, that is going to be Hugging Face Write Secret.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, why we use write secret and why we use the read secret. Can anyone tell me?
Sunny: What is the science behind this one?
Sunny: What is the science behind this writes, secret on the read secret?
Sunny: So this write, basically, for writing something over the hugging phase, okay? A read, basically, for reading something from the hugging phase.
Sunny: Okay, so if I wanted to upload my model over the hugging phase, so which token will be required to me?
Sunny: If I wanted to… if I wanted to keep my own model over the Hugging Face Hub, then which token is required for me?
Sunny: So I required what? I required the right token. If I wanted to read any model from the hugging phase, so which token is required to me?
Sunny: So we required the…
Sunny: write token, okay? Sorry, read token. So what you can do, you can simply go through with the hugging phase, just go through with the hugging phase.
Sunny: Here I logged in. So here is my hugging phase, guys. Now, what you will do, you will go with your profile. Now, here, guys, go with the access token.
Sunny: Okay, and you will get an option to… here, what you will do, guys, you will get an option to create a token.
Sunny: So, you can create a write token, and you can create a read token. So, see, guys, I created a read token, and I created a write token. So, just click on this create token here, write the token name, you can create a read token, as well as you can create a write token. Even you can create the fine-grade token. You can provide some specific permission to the token.
Sunny: And that is going to be your fine-grained token, okay? But what we required as of now, we required the read token, and we required the write token. So, are you creating that?
Sunny: So, are you creating the token? Tell me, guys, if you're creating the token, please let me know in the chat. Past.
Sunny: If you're creating that token, then let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Find grade token means token with a specific permission.
Sunny: So, whatever permission you wanted to give the specific permission, you can create a fine grade token. And there are so many options which you will get, okay? So, as of now, we are not going into this particular detail. Simply, I'm going to create a read token as well as a write token.
Sunny: Just write a name of the token, and generate the token, and keep it inside your secrets, okay? So where you can keep it, guys, you can keep it in your collab secrets. Open the collab, and keep it over here.
Sunny: Right? HF readToken, HF write token, right, and keep thus… keep the token over there.
Sunny: Okay? So, one is going to be a read token, and one is going to be a write token.
Sunny: And if automatically hugging… if you are going to be run any library, right, in a collab, automatically this Hugging Face is going to be picked the environment variable. So what will be the environment variable name? So the environment variable name will be the Hugging Face token only.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So, by default, name is going to be Hugging FaceToken.
Sunny: So, either you can keep the write token and the read token over here, whatever value you wanted to keep, you can keep over here, right? Inside the Hugging Fist token.
Sunny: But yeah, these two variables, these two tokens should be there inside your secrets, okay? Because alternatively, we are going to be use it.
Sunny: Ruchi's asking when to use read and when to use write. Okay, Ruchi, I'm not going to be explained, just tell me with your understanding.
Sunny: when we are going to be used that. Tell me.
Sunny: Tell me, Ruchi, fast.
Sunny: When we are going to be… use the read, and when we are going to be user write.
Sunny: write a new LLM. What is the meaning of that? Why you're making complicated thing right?
Sunny: Write means if I wanted to write anything over the hugging phase.
Sunny: If I wanted to upload any data, any model over the Hugging Face, I'll use the right token. If I wanted to download anything from the Hugging Face, then I will use a read.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Have you worked with a file?
Sunny: If I'm saying read the file, you are taking the content of the file. If I'm saying write over the file, you are writing something over the file.
Sunny: Self-explanatory thing, right?
Sunny: Again, guys, one more thing I would like to say over here. See, guys, you are a professional one.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: You are a professional one, you are not a school student, so you have to use, like, some… some common sense from your end also, okay? This is not for the one person, this is for everyone.
Sunny: Right? So, use some common sense from yours as well. If something had been written over the screen, over the blackboard, then think about that. Why this have been written. What could be the meaning of that?
Sunny: Because if I'm showing this thing to any, basically 10th grade student, or even the 12th grade student, that person can also give me the definition of it.
Sunny: Okay? So please use some of your common sense and understand just by reading the
Sunny: A thing, because you are a working professional, you are a professional guys, right? You are in the colleges, okay? So you have, like, much more common sense than the school-grade people. Got it?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: Now, let's do one thing, guys. Let's, read the token.
Sunny: And here's my read token, and here's my write token. So I can use this token alternatively, according to my requirement. Now, what I'm doing, guys, so first I'm going to be interact with the Hugging Face Hub.
Sunny: So for that, guys, what I will have to do, I will have to install this Hugging Face Hub library.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys, here, you can see, we are going to be installing the Hugging Face Hub Library, and here, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just sharing the link of this particular notebook.
Sunny: So that, even you can check the code, whatever I'm writing, inside this particular notebook, okay? So I'm sharing with the view access, you can just view the code, you cannot access, you cannot edit the code.
Sunny: So once you got it, please let me know.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So guys, once you got the notebook, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Got it? Now, first of all, guys, I'm going to be interacting with the Hugging Face Hub. So, for interacting the Hugging Face Hub, I'm going to be installing this particular library, okay?
Sunny: Now, what I'll do, guys, so over here, see, if I wanted to log into the Hugging Face Hub, so what I will do, first I will import this one.
Sunny: From Hugging Face Hub, I'm going to be import the Hugging Face API.
Sunny: Okay? Now, what I'll do, guys, I will create an object of that. So let me create an object of this Hugging Face API.
Sunny: Okay? Now, after that, guys, what I will do… so, see, if I want to do access anything from the Hugging Face app, I can do that. So, let's say if I wanted to take a model information, so I will write this line of… I will write this code.
Sunny: Okay, I will call this method API modelInfo, and I will give the model name. Okay, repo ID, basically. Once I will done it, guys, I will be getting the model information. So the different, different information, basically, I can get using this model information. So, I can get these particular information regarding the particular repository.
Sunny: Is it visible to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: So what we can do, guys, we can create a… we can create an object of the Hugging Face API, and here we can provide the repository name, okay, any repository name, and using that repository name, we can access the different, different information about that particular repository. Got it? Great. So this is the first thing. This is the first thing.
Sunny: Now, what I can do, we can do the other thing also. Let's say if I wanted to get a list of model, okay? Let's say if I wanted to get a list of model of this llama.
Sunny: Right? So what I'll do, guys, I will simply write API list model, and I will write the search term, Llama, okay, and then limit 50 means I will get the 50 model, okay, whatever number of model we have over there. And once I will execute it, guys, what I will be getting?
Sunny: I will be getting the models, actually. So I can iterate on top of the model. See, it will provide me an object.
Sunny: this model object. And here, guys, I can iterate on top of the models, okay? And I can check name of the model. So, see, this is the name of the model.
Sunny: which is being provided by the Llama, okay?
Sunny: So all the Lama model I'm getting from the different, different repository.
Sunny: Are you also getting this thing? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, are you also getting this thing? If you're getting this thing, you can let me know in the chat, fast.
Sunny: If you're getting all this thing, Okay.
Sunny: Now, what we can do, guys, so over here, see, not only this llama, you can search any sort of a term over here.
Sunny: Let's see if I'm going to search the, Mr. over here, okay? Or instead of the Mr. Let's say if I'm going to search the Quen. There's a very famous open source model.
Sunny: If I'm going to research it, if I wanted to get the model details, okay, the model repo name, I can simply print this thing, and see, guys, I'm getting all the coin model. If I'm going to remove this limit, I will be getting all the models.
Sunny: See?
Sunny: And maybe the list is going to be very, very huge in that case. See? How many coin models are there over the hugging Face Hub?
Sunny: So if you're getting this thing, you can let me know in the chat so that I can proceed with a different operation.
Sunny: Right? So let's say if you wanted to get the embedding model, so you can get the different, different embedding model. You can simply search it over here.
Sunny: You can simply search with this embedding term, and you can get the embedding model. So whatever terms you wanted to search, you can simply mention inside the search word, inside the search parameter. You can simply mention inside the search parameter, and you can get that.
Sunny: Now, see, guys, how many coin terms we have, how many coin repository we have. So many. I think more than 1,000 repository we have.
Sunny: Understood?
Sunny: Okay. Now, guys, this is the one thing of the Hugging Face API. Now.
Sunny: If you wanted to get a detail of any repository, okay, so here I've shown you how to get a detail of any repository. You can get the detail of any repository.
Sunny: Okay? You can get the detail of any repository using this particular attribute. But still, if you want to get a, like, detail of the files, right, what all files are there inside the specific repository. So for that, also, we have a specific method.
Sunny: So, what I can do, guys, I can execute that particular method, just a second. So, here is the, basically class name, method name, sorry, list repo file.
Sunny: Now, what I can do, I can provide a repository name to this particular method, okay? Now, once I have done it, guys, so see, I will be getting all the files inside this particular repository. So, whatever repository we have.
Sunny: So whatever files we have inside this particular repository, I will be getting all those files from this repository, okay? So, see, still it is running, means we have so many coin models, and it is giving me almost all the coin model.
Sunny: So let me stop it, and then I can show you the other operation.
Sunny: So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to execute this thing. Now, here's the list repository file, and now, see, guys, you can look into each and every file, whatever is available inside this particular repository, okay? So, see, these many files are there inside this particular repository.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you? If this part is clear, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny: Not only the model name, guys, you can even get the dataset information also. So let's say if I wanted to get information of any sort of a dataset, right? So what I will do over here, I will simply call this particular method.
Sunny: So I will… what I will call, guys, I will call this particular method API.datasetInfo, and I will provide a repository name over here, okay, or the dataset name.
Sunny: Now, once I will execute it, guys, so here, what you will be getting, you will be getting the detail of the data site, okay? What all files we have, each and every information you can get with respect to the data side.
Sunny: regarding the dataset, basically, we can get the detail, okay? So here is the detail of that particular dataset.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you? You can go through with the Hugging Face website, or else you can directly get it via code itself.
Sunny: Right? In both ways, you can get it.
Sunny: Okay? Now, guys…
Sunny: Let's say you wanted to access any model from the hugging phase. So, how you will do that? So, simply…
Sunny: You will call this method.
Sunny: inference client.
Sunny: Okay? Sorry, this is a class, actually. Now you will create an object of this class. So, let's say you are going to be create an object of this class.
Sunny: So, here is the object of this class, okay? Now, what you will do, guys, you will, basically, you will pass the prompt over here, okay?
Sunny: You will call this method client.chen.completion.create. Here is your prompt.
Sunny: Now, guys, see what you will get? You will get a response. If I'm going to be print the response, guys.
Sunny: you will get the response over here, see? You can access any sort of a model from the Hugging Face itself, from the Hugging Face API.
Sunny: Making sense or not, tell me?
Sunny: No, don't follow to me. Just observe. Whatever I'm writing, Aslam, please observe, okay? Later on, you can practice. Because if you are going to follow to me, I think we will not be able to cover almost all the things.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Because I cannot go according to everyone, so it is my suggestion to please observe the code. I already provided you the code link, please focus onto the code, and later on, you can practice. This is the best way of practicing a thing, right? First, learn, and then revise the thing. Got it?
Sunny: Okay, guys. Now, here, guys, you can see, we are going to be load the model. Now, tell me, are we going to load the model in our server, or we are just going to be, like, take this model from the Hugging Face Hub?
Sunny: what we are doing over here. Tell me, guys.
Sunny: So it is an API call, or it is just, basically, we are… we are just going to be download the model on our server, or we are just calling the API over here?
Sunny: What we are doing.
Sunny: Great. So we are calling the API. Okay, and which API?
Sunny: We are calling the Hugging Face API. Now, guys, can we do the same thing from the Langchen also?
Sunny: Can this thing… Sorry, this… could this… thing.
Sunny: B.
Sunny: done by Langchen also.
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Yes, so this thing we can done by Langchen also. So for that, we'll have to install some Langchen-specific library. So let me show you the Langchen code as well. So here, what I'm doing, I'm just going to be take this library, Langchen Hugging Face and Langchen Community, okay? So let me install this library, and then I will show you the Langchen code.
Sunny: So this is the Langchen code, guys, which I already shown in my previous classes. Let me give you the, recap of that, okay?
Sunny: So, guys, can you see the Langchen code over here?
Sunny: You can take any sort of a model. Now, over here, what we are doing, first we are going to be import.
Sunny: First, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be import the chat hugging phase and this hugging phase endpoint from the luncheon hugging phase, okay? Then, guys, what we are doing after that, we are going to… we are going to be defining the model, okay?
Sunny: which model we wanted to load. So here is a repo ID, we wanted to load the DeepSeek model, or else you can load the same model, which we are loading over here, this one.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: Now, here, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be defining the repo ID for which task, for the text generation, okay, max token, right? And reputation penalty, something like that. There's a different, different parameter, basically, right? So, as of now, you can ignore some parameter from here, right?
Sunny: Now, we have a repo ID task and max token. This parameter I will discuss in the rack chapter, okay? There it is important.
Sunny: Now, what I will do, I will initialize my LLM. Now, after that, guys, I will define my LLM, I will pass it to this chat hugging Face class, okay? Now, my chat model is ready. Now, what I'll do, guys, here, I will invoke it.
Sunny: Now, once I will invoke it, guys, so here, what I'll be getting, I will be getting the response.
Sunny: So, see, guys, what I'm getting, guys, I'm getting the response from this deep-seq model, and these models are the completely free one.
Sunny: We don't need to pay anything over here. These models are the completely free model. So, if I will show you the response… So, see the response, guys? Are we getting a response over here?
Sunny: Are we getting a response over here? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: You can observe the code, guys, and tell me, are we getting a response? Yes. We are getting a response, okay? So this is our response. Now, guys, there is a couple of more things, additional thing, which we are going to learn in an upcoming session in our RAC chapter.
Sunny: So here is a prompt template, you can define the prompt template, you can define the structure output.
Sunny: okay, you can define this runnable pass-through class to give the input on a runtime, right? So there is one more additional code which I have written over here, just to give you the glimpse that we can integrate any Hugging Face model in our RAC pipeline, or in our Agentic pipeline.
Sunny: So, from Hugging Face, we can load the model, any free model, and we can integrate it in our rack pipeline. So, see, this is my prompt template.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, here, basically, I'm asking a question, so this question will be going over here, and this is my… some additional, basically, context for my question, okay? This I am writing in my prompt.
Sunny: So if I will execute it, guys, so what I'll be getting, I'll be getting a response out of that. So this each and everything we are going to discuss in upcoming session, so this entire thing will come into the rack chapter.
Sunny: So, as of now, you can skip this part, okay? Because in a REC chapter, we are going to discuss in a very detail.
Sunny: Understood, guys. So, directly, you can write an input, or else you can write a human message or system message. Both are fine. Okay, Raul?
Sunny: Getting my, getting this point.
Sunny: Already, I have discussed this point in my previous session, Rahul. Okay? So you can read any sort of a model from the Hugging phase, which is a free-of-cost model, and you can integrate
Sunny: And you can integrate where? You can integrate inside your rack pipeline, right?
Sunny: So, let me comment, or let me keep this code as it is. I think you can go through with it.
Sunny: And you can run it, you can execute. So let me give you the quick recap of the Hugging Face API, Hugging Face Hub API.
Sunny: So, what we are doing, guys… so, see, first we have generated the read token and the write token.
Sunny: So, read token, basically, for reading anything from the hugging phase, write token for writing anything from over the hugging phase. So, I will show you the practical uses of it. Don't worry, everything we are going to be discussed. Then, we have installed this Hugging Face Hub library, okay? After that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to create an object of this Hugging Face API.
Sunny: Right? And here, we are calling the different, different method. So, first method, modelInfo, we can get the info of any model, we just have to provide the repository ID. Okay, so if you will go with the hugging face, if you will open any model.
Sunny: So, here, guys, you will find out the repository ID. So, this is the repository ID, you just need to provide this particular ID, and you will be getting a detail, okay? Then, what all details, basically, we can fetch? See, here we can fetch the tag, okay? We can fetch the commits, we can fetch the last modify, who modified that.
Sunny: We can fetch the other information, okay, how many likes is there, author, private repository, how many downloads are there? So this is all… this is called the metadata of the repository. So we can fetch all the metadata. Similar to the model information, we can fetch the data information also. So here you can see, guys.
Sunny: We are calling one more method over here, that is a data information, okay?
Sunny: So, see, data information. So, we can face the detail related to the data. So, if you're going to be open the hugging phase, guys, if you're going into the data site, okay, if you're going to be open any sort of a data file, data site, basically, so there you will find the information about the data. So, here, see, all the files related to the data.
Sunny: JSON file, Pocket file.
Sunny: git attribute file, MD file, so all this information, basically, we are able to get over here. So either you can check directly over the hugging Face, or you can fetch this information via code itself, okay?
Sunny: Now, apart from this one, guys, we can get some other detail also. So, if, let's say, you wanted to get any model-related information, so we have some other model, like, list model, so you can call this search, term over here. Okay, you can mention the search attribute.
Sunny: And you can get the Llama model list. Similar to that, you can get any model list, you just need to mention the search term over here, and you will be getting that specific model term, okay?
Sunny: So I hope this thing is clear. Now, it is having, so Hugging Fist Hub is having some other different method also, like list repo file, so you can call this method also, you can provide the repository name, and you will get all the file from the repository.
Sunny: Okay? So this is all the file from the repository. So, guys, whenever we create any model, so we get all this file, even I will show you, once we are going to train the model, you will get all this file, and we are going to be upload this particular file over the repository itself, okay?
Sunny: So I hope, guys, all this thing clear. If you wanted to explore the different, different other methods from the API, you can simply, take this API, basically object, so here is an API object, this one.
Sunny: Okay, and you can put the dot after that. So just take this API object and put the dot, you will get all the methods. Okay?
Sunny: list model, list organization follower, organization member, list paper, okay, different, different method. So many methods are there. You can call any sort of a method for capturing the information, right? You can export that, that what all method this object is having.
Sunny: And this method have been defined under this particular class, this HFAPI class.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you, guys, tell me. Now, here, guys, the biggest advantage of this Hugging Face API is, Hugging Face Hub API is nothing.
Sunny: We can get any model, okay?
Sunny: So, we have… we are having this inference client, we can mention the model name, we can call that model, okay, with our prompt, and we can get a output. But the same thing, basically, we can done via a Langchen wrapper also.
Sunny: Okay, so this thing, basically, we can do using the Langchen wrapper also.
Sunny: So already, I've shown you in my previous classes how to get a code, how to get a, basically, how to call the Hugging Face model using the Langchen wrapper. And again, I've shown you that. And this is some additional code, just to show you that we can integrate any sort of a Hugging Face model in our RAG and in the agentic pipeline, okay? So going forward, in the upcoming chapter, we are going to discuss that.
Sunny: So tell me, guys, till here, everything is fine, everything is clear?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: So, should I close the session, or should I explain you the couple of more things there?
Sunny: Because this Hugging Face, it will take one more hour, and basically…
Sunny: After that, we are good to go for the fine-tuning itself.
Sunny: So what do you want? Should I close it, or should I explain more? Because we have, it will take half an hour more, or maybe more than that, so I required at least 45 minutes just to explain you all the things.
Sunny: So, if you are agree to spend 30 more minutes, I can. Otherwise, I can take it in the next class.
Sunny: So I will go with a majority vote.
Sunny: Next class.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Fine, guys, I'll discuss in the next class. Because, see, we have, other, thing also. I can show you that waddle thing I have to discuss, after that.
Sunny: So, let me open the notebook. I already prepared, I just have to discuss that, okay? And after that only, we'll come to the fine-tuning side.
Sunny: So, can you see this notebook? I will share this notebook in the next class, so we have so many things over here.
Sunny: So, this is one of the notebooks. Not this one, guys. I have another one.
Sunny: Let me open. I already prepared a notebook, the complete, detail, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, guys, so here is a notebook. So let me give you the quick glimpse, that what we are going to be learned.
Sunny: So first, guys, see, this is all the log… login way, how we can log into the Hugging phase. I will show you that in the next class. Different, different way we have for the login, okay, for the logging in. Then, data set, basically. So we are going to be… load the different, different data sets. See, this is a dataset for the unsupervised pre-training.
Sunny: This is a dataset for the supervised fine-tuning, there's a dataset for the RLHF, right? And then I loaded one dataset on top of that, I have performed some pre-processing and all, right? Then after that, guys, I have to show you how to create a custom dataset. Or one more thing, guys, if you're going to be load any very… if you're going to be load any huge dataset.
Sunny: So, basically, how to use this streaming variable over there, right? So we are going to be using this streaming variable just to load the huge data side.
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, if we have any custom dataset, so how we are going to be deal with that, so we can create a custom dataset, okay, we can convert into the Hugging Face format.
Sunny: And after that, basically, we can upload that particular data to my repository also, okay? So, here we can upload our data in my repository. Then I have to teach you about the tokenization, so if I'm passing any data, so how to… how the tokenization, how the data is being converted into the tokenization.
Sunny: Then what all, basically, algorithm we have for the tokenization, like bird piece algorithm, BP algorithm, sentence piece algorithm, custom tokenizer, okay, sentence piece, algorithm.
Sunny: So this, all the algorithm is being used via the different, different companies, right? I will not show you the mathematics and all, I will show you the… I will show you one practical, how you can create your own custom tokenizer, if you wanted to create on your own custom dataset, right?
Sunny: But before that, I will show you the pre-trained tokenizer. So, with every model, one tokenizer is associated. So, using this particular class, we can load the tokenizer. So, we have bird class, base class, right? We can provide a sentence, and we can create a tokenize… tokens out of that.
Sunny: Now, this token further will be provided to the embedding model, and then we are going to create an embedding out of that, embedding lookup, and it is going to the self-attention model, right?
Sunny: Okay? So this is all the tokenizer, guys, different, different tokenizer, related to the different, different models, Llama, Mistral, Quan, Google.
Sunny: Every company is providing their own tokenizer, okay, related to every model. Now, guys, if you wanted to create your own tokenizer, so how to do that? So, for creating a tokenizer, we have a different, different, algorithm, as I told you. So, using this BERT BPE trainer, right, we can create our own tokenizer. So, this is the code for that. Then, guys.
Sunny: how to load a model, okay? So, this is a way for loading a model. We can load any model. Now, here, guys, we are going to be load this model in our memory. So, I have to show you this also, also. So, how to load the model in the memory.
Sunny: And, this model only, we are going to be used for the fine-tuning. So once you will load this particular model, you will get the model files and all everything over here, right? And we can use this model for the fine-tuning purpose.
Sunny: Then, guys, after that, we'll understand.
Sunny: Sentence transformer, I already discussed in my previous classes. Again, I'm not going to discuss that. We have a different, different classes, so we're going to be use AutoModel, or Automodel Causal LM, okay? This is for the text generation, or for any GPT-style model. So, I mentioned this detail also over here, right?
Sunny: Then, guys, after that, so after completing this part, so this is very easy. So, if you wanted to download any model file, okay, in your local system, just to execute that, how to download, so using this snapshot download, we can do it.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So, it's the same one. Pipeline method is not required, so we can skip that. Evaluation metrics is, I will explain you in the upcoming evaluation chapter, right? So, we have blue score, rough score, perplexity, and all everything. So, we are going to be discuss that in a evaluation chapter. As of now, I'm not going to be discuss that.
Sunny: Hugging Face Hub, I already discussed in today's class, guys, so yeah, this is completed.
Sunny: So these many things we have to discuss in the hugging phase. Guys, if you wanted to understand the core of the hugging phase before starting with the fine-tuning.
Sunny: So at least this much of the concept should be clear. If you know this much of the concept, then only you can perform the fine-tuning using the hugging phase. So, this will again take 1 hour.
Sunny: Okay, if I'm going to be explaining you this entire thing, so it might take 1 hour, all the material is ready, maybe in the next class, I can explain you this entire thing. So is it fine, guys, to all of you, tell me yes or no? I think this much detail related to the hugging face is fine.
Sunny: Can you share that? No, I will not share this notebook. I will share only this notebook. Okay, as of now, whatever I have created.
Sunny: So guys, if you know this much of thing in the hugging phase, then I think we are good to go. We can work with any, we can, basically train any model, okay?
Sunny: So after spending this much of time over the hugging phase, I will come to the hugging phase fine-tuning, and then I'll come to the onslaught fine-tuning. So maybe within 3-4 classes, we are going to complete this fine-tuning chapter.
Sunny: And every training we are doing over the collab itself, okay?
Sunny: So, let me open the notebook. So, open notebook.
Sunny: Here is the notebook, guys.
Sunny: Okay, great. So this is just for the hugging phase, and then we'll discuss about the onslaught.
Sunny: Onslaught again.
Sunny: There is one more notebook for that, okay? Anslaught.
Sunny: Fine, guys, so let's conclude this session. I can give you this particular notebook so that you can practice.
Sunny: Right? Just a sec.
Sunny: I can download this notebook as an IPYNB or PY, so I'm downloading as an IPYNB file.
Sunny: So this notebook is downloaded, and I can keep this notebook here inside your folder itself, okay?
Sunny: So, how's the session, guys? Are you enjoying the session? Are you learning something new?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: You will learn everything, just be with me for next 6 months.
Sunny: Everything is going to be clear, okay?
Sunny: Okay, so guys, I pushed the code, I push the code over the GitHub itself, you can directly take it from there.
Sunny: So just check out with the GitHub repository, you will get the code over there, okay?
Sunny: So, open the repository.
Sunny: And open the folder, and inside the folder, guys, you will get a code.
Sunny: Once you got it, please let me know.
Sunny: Will I do a project over the high ending? Yes, this is all the project only.
Sunny: So, once I will show you the practical now, the fine-tuning practical, you can convert that into the project, okay? I'll give you the good assignment, and even I included one project, maybe over the AWS, okay? So, we'll do that, Raji.
Sunny: Danish is saying bouncing glass. Yes, it might bouncing, because if you don't know anything in AI, if you're directly starting from the genitive AI or this hugging phase, it might be the bouncing one, right?
Sunny: Dead.
Sunny: Okay, guys, fine, I think we are done with today's session. If you don't have any doubt, you can drop the session, and I can provide you this link inside the chat.
Sunny: Just a sec.
Sunny: Okay, if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me in the doubt session. Otherwise, you can drop the class.
Sunny: Easy class? Yes. This class, and maybe the next class is going to be a little easy, but after that, we'll move to the fine-tuning and the LoRa and all. So, from there, again, you will get a more interest, right? So, maybe 4 to 5 classes, will spend more on the fine-tuning.
Sunny: So, tell me, guys, are we in a good pace or good space? Sorry, good pace, and my pace is good, my speed is good, and I think with this particular speed, we can cover the syllabus, right?
Sunny: So once the fine-tuning will be completed, I will eventually move to the RAG, agents, guardrails, MCP, and all everything. So that will cover in a single go. So maybe 2 to 3 months will ins… two to three months will spend on that… that part, okay?
Sunny: RAG agent, guardrails Evaluation, MCP. This five topics will do in a straightforward manner. Let me write over here, see.
Sunny: So once, we are done with the fine-tuning, no.
Sunny: So, fine-tuning, again, will take, maybe 4 classes. I'm assuming, 3 to 4 more classes, okay?
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, we'll move to the rag.
Sunny: Agents.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: A rag agent, then guardrails.
Sunny: Okay, evaluation.
Sunny: Then we'll come to the MCP, right? So once these concepts are clear, so this will take maybe 2 through 3 months. This is the important one. And the entire industry, almost all the practical is going around to this only, right? This is the real practical thing. Then, guys, directly we move to the project. Okay, so we have 3 end-to-end projects.
Sunny: three end-to-end projects. So we'll do that particular project, and again, this particular project, again, it will take…
Sunny: Two months, okay? 2 months. So there's two months for the project, and two to three months, basically, for this particular topic. So once we are done with this thing, I think, 90% or 90-95% course curriculum is completed.
Sunny: Right? So 90-95% course curriculum is completed, so I'm assuming around, 4 to 5 months for this thing, right?
Sunny: 4 to 5 months, and we can complete. And then whatever small, small other topics we have, okay, cloud and the other NAT and all, we can complete that. Okay, we can complete that also. Got it, guys? So we are going in this way.
Sunny: In FastAPI and all, this, in FastAPI, basically, sorry, in the project site, this FastAPI and all, the other topic will be covered, okay?
Sunny: So I'm going with this particular strategy.
Sunny: Making sense? Are we going in a good pace? I think we can complete our course within a timeframe itself.
Sunny: And, I think it will be completed.
Sunny: Prompt engineering will not be covered. CRA case, prompt engineering is not a separate topic. It comes under the rag and all, okay?
Sunny: Prompt engineering is not a separate topic. If someone is saying, no, prompt engineering is something, it is some different job description, some are different chapter topic, you know, no, it is not like that. Okay? So in the right chapter itself, we'll understand that. Prompt engineering and all, everything will be covered.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Yeah, that project will be actually real… near to real industry use cases. If I'm bringing the real industry…
Sunny: project here, then that company will maybe put some, like, case on me, right? Some compliance and all.
Sunny: So that, this use case, basically, it will be a near-real industry use cases, right? Which we are generally doing in an industry itself.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: Yeah.
Sunny: Okay, fine, guys, thank you, bye-bye, take care, yeah.
Sunny: what type of job you do in the PwC? My role is a generative AI engineer. I am a generative AI developer. I just developed the AI-related project, Rajiv. That's it. That is my one and only role, actually.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Fine guys, bye, take care, good night. I'll see you in the next class. If you have doubt, be there. I'll start the doubt session after 5 minutes.
Sunny: Thank you, wait.
Sunny: Okay, guys, let's start with the doubt session. If you have any doubt, you can raise your hand. Just raise your hand, you will get one option over your screen.
Sunny: Yeah.
Sunny: Yeah, ABR, what's a doubt?
ABR: Yeah, Sunny, I have a, silly question, maybe. So, you were talking about the model and model, right? So,
ABR: like, there is 30 GB or 3GB, you're trying to say that model size. Is it completely internet data of that size of the GB, or data set? Like, how is that, like, how… where the data is going to be stored in the model, actually, and how it's going to be running that?
Sunny: So, data is not going to be stored, actually. Model is going to be trained on data.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, model… let's say we have a, data.
Sunny: And on the other side, we have a model. So, first of all, tell me, what is a model, actually? What do you think with the model?
ABR: A model is an algorithm, which is going to take the data and it's going to take.
Sunny: How? Model is an algorithm, right? So in that algorithm, if you will look into that algorithm, so we have some parameter, some learnable parameter in that algorithm, right? Correct. Okay, so that learnable parameter itself is a weight, so biases and all, right?
Sunny: Correct? So if we have that huge model, so we have lots, many weights and biases.
ABR: Hmm.
Sunny: Okay, lots many bits and biases, and those… lots many bits and biases, those lots many specs, different, different stacks, okay, after compiling, after piling up to each other, that is only the size of the model. Getting my point? So data is not a… data is not that size, 30GB, 50GB, it's a model itself, those weight only.
Sunny: those mathematical weights only. Got it?
ABR: But… but runtime where data will come? Let's say, hey, who is the Prime Minister of India? So, how algorithm knows it's a, it's a model?
Sunny: We have taught to the model to predict the next token. So we are passing our prompt, so according to that prompt, model is generating a response, okay?
ABR: Correct, sir, but how model knows Modi is a prime minister?
Sunny: That is, sir, we have taught to the model, while training. At the time of the training, we have taught to the model.
ABR: Okay, remember everything.
Sunny: it tried to generate a next token, it tried to generate the probability of the next token. On behalf of that, it is going to be understood. Just look into my transformer videos, you know, you will get that, okay?
ABR: Yeah, yeah, so actually, so, yeah, that is a silly question, maybe, because of… while I was going transformer, right? So, in the transformer, also, like, we have a QKB, right?
ABR: I hope QKB knows, this context, like, if you want to generate context vectors, right?
ABR: So how knows, actually, so that, there I got some, you know, questions, actually, so…
Sunny: No, for that, actually, you will have to understand the training and the prediction pipeline. So, by training, what we are doing, we are teaching to the model to predict the next token. Now, in the prediction, what we are doing.
ABR: giving.
Sunny: a sentence, and model is predicting a next word. Okay, likewise, it is generating the complete sentence. Got it?
ABR: Okay.
ABR: Yeah. Okay.
ABR: Okay, I'm good, sir, then.
Sunny: Okay, now next doubt is, any more person having doubt?
Sunny: Ruchi, what's your doubt?
Ruchi S: Hi, Sunny.
Sunny: your hope.
Ruchi S: Sanil, I was running this code in Kulab, but I got an error that, API key is also required, like.
Ruchi S: I have given the keys, which is the HF token read and the token write.
Ruchi S: But, when I'm trying to run the model, which is the Quen model, it says that the API key is missing.
Sunny: Show me, show me, I'll check.
Ruchi S: Okay, can you, like, send me the… Sharing options.
Sunny: Just, just, like… Yeah, now you can share.
Ruchi S: Is my screen… okay, let's… Okay.
Ruchi S: Is my screen visible?
Sunny: No, no, share first. You are getting a share option, right?
Ruchi S: No, I'm not.
Sunny: screen share.
Ruchi S: option, a screenshot.
Sunny: that option.
Ruchi S: No, I don't.
Sunny: as a panelist, right? So you must be getting that option. Just click on that share option.
Ruchi S: It was coming earlier, but now it's not coming, it's just blank screen.
Ruchi S: Like, can you share that option again, if possible?
Sunny: It is not in my hand. You will get that over the screen itself. Again, I'm adding weight.
Sunny: Yeah, now check, I think you are getting that option.
Sunny: Hi, Ruchi.
Sunny: Can you hear me?
Ruchi S: I can hear you, can you hear me?
Sunny: Yeah, I can hear you. Please share the.
Ruchi S: So, I said that I selected Join as a panelist, but it's not giving me the share option.
Sunny: It is very strange. It should not be like that.
Sunny: just over your mouse, here and there, over the skin. I think you will be getting.
Ruchi S: Wait, okay, I got just now.
Ruchi S: Is my screen visible?
Sunny: Yeah, it is visible.
Ruchi S: Okay, so this is where it says that the API key is required.
Ruchi S: But initially, on top, I have given these, and the secret keys also.
Ruchi S: I have given the APN keys.
Sunny: HF token, so show me the key name… name.
Sunny: What is the queue name?
Sunny: Just write HF token. See, Mahagin face directly, don't consider this HF token read and write, okay? This is not a correct name, actually. This is just for us, our understanding. Write HF token, and give the read token into that. Create one more key here.
Ruchi S: And after, it's got 14 conflicts, and after.
Sunny: with the name of HF token, HF underscore token.
Ruchi S: water.
Ruchi S: Good for the coffee, then…
Sunny: Caps, capsma, HF token.
Ruchi S: Should I give the same key?
Sunny: Read key, read key, just copy it and paste it here.
Sunny: Twisted here.
Sunny: Now, maximize your… this screen.
Ruchi S: Oh my god.
Ruchi S: Okay…
Sunny: Just code, code notebooks.
Sunny: Scroll up.
Ruchi S: You bet.
Ruchi S: I'm gonna use.
Sunny: Scroll up.
Ruchi S: Up, up.
Sunny: Bye.
Ruchi S: We have added the value.
Sunny: Where is the option?
Ruchi S: It's true.
Ruchi S: Me too.
Sunny: Why you're not getting that?
Sunny: Can you maximize your screen? Are you… where are you working? It is a system, or what?
Ruchi S: Yeah, it's…
Sunny: It's a laptop.
Ruchi S: No, no, no, I mean, it's connected to… The… the monitor.
Sunny: But… File added, view, insert, wire is that header?
Sunny: Just restart that session, and…
Ruchi S: This one? Okay, I don't see…
Sunny: Header, header, where is that header?
Ruchi S: ain't.
Sunny: We always get that header now, right?
Ruchi S: Which handle are you talking about?
Sunny: Ma'am, header means that file, edit, view, insert, runtime, tools, help, all those names, all those options. Why it is not coming here?
Ruchi S: Maybe calling it as much data now.
Ruchi S: No. I haven't used Collaborio, I've used other things.
Sunny: So, that is fine, ma'am, but see, everyone is getting that, right? But why you're getting like this? You are working with your iPad or somewhere, or whatso?
Ruchi S: No, no, laptop only, but it's connected to the monitor, that's it, nothing much.
Sunny: Just share your, main laptop screen, put your… put this, screen over there, put this, yeah, drag and drop there on your main screen, main laptop.
Sunny: Share that one, okay? Don't share the laptop. Yeah, see, now you maximize it, no?
Ruchi S: Yeah.
Sunny: No, you must be getting this check.
Sunny: Scroll up, check…
Ruchi S: I see what I thought.
Ruchi S: Like I said, It just depends on the problems that they have.
Sunny: Restart this one. Go with the RAM disk and disconnect it.
Ruchi S: This one?
Sunny: Restart session, restart session, restart session.
Sunny: Huh, let's do it.
Sunny: Okay, run, basically this, this from here, pip install upgrade hugging Face, or from here. Okay, run, run all the cells, yeah.
Ruchi S: The situation is a populistically.
Sunny: This one? This one?
Ruchi S: going to get into Google.
Ruchi S: But everyone has to get into a way where
Ruchi S: The products give their own products.
Ruchi S: So, I think hardness is the key word.
Sunny: Yo.
Sunny: this also.
Ruchi S: to, understand?
Ruchi S: They'll spring and call the, okay. Okay.
Sunny: Got it.
Ruchi S: in that context. That it should update.
Ruchi S: So, that is the reason for autonomous. So, autonomous needs the whole headache of.
Sunny: Okay, I think it is done now. Let me take the other doubts.
Sunny: You're done right, Ruchi. Doubt is clear.
Sunny: Hello.
Sunny: I think you are on mute.
Sunny: Okay, fine, she is done now. Let me take the other ones.
Sunny: Jonas, what's your doubt?
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, is that audible?
Yonas Haileyesus: Hello?
Sunny: Yeah, you are audible.
Yonas Haileyesus: Sunny, I'm very upset with you, like, I know you, and on YouTube.
Yonas Haileyesus: So I really loved you, so I could not time to join the class, but as much as possible, I tried to catch up the early class, but I have a doubt. Can I…
Sunny: Yo, yo, you can ask.
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay.
Yonas Haileyesus: Where do you share? Okay, let me…
Sunny: You want to share the screen?
Yonas Haileyesus: Yaya, I wanna share my screen.
Sunny: Just a second, promoting you as a panelist.
Yonas Haileyesus: Hold on, okay, let me show this one.
Yonas Haileyesus: Is that foldable? Is that visible?
Sunny: Wait, it is loading? Yeah, now it is visible.
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, my concern is, like, as much as possible, I will try to… doing myself, as much as possible, even if on your YouTube, some of my understanding long chain and long graph as much as possible.
Yonas Haileyesus: But my concern is, as my, I think you're giving some assignment, I'm not converted on a stream yet, I'm just reading the newsbook. So, I joined yesterday the last class.
Yonas Haileyesus: So, as much as possible, I will try to catch up, missed my class. So, I did one question for you, like, as much as possible, I will try to converting, this one, like, text to audio.
Yonas Haileyesus: Hello?
Yonas Haileyesus: text to audio, but, it's working for English, like, this one it takes, it's for English, it's worked fine.
Yonas Haileyesus: But my concern is, my mother's tongue is Amaric from Ethiopia Language. When I was using Amaric, there is some accent, and there is some problem, like, they miss some word…
Yonas Haileyesus: Sometimes they stress somewhere that, like.
Yonas Haileyesus: They lose some character. So, how do you fix this one?
Sunny: You can check out with a different model, which can deal with this kind of data. What is this language?
Yonas Haileyesus: Miss Amahariq, Amahariq.
Sunny: So this Amharic, right, right, maybe that model is not exposed with this particular language.
Sunny: And because of that, maybe it is not able to do. So, which model you are using, Sumi?
Yonas Haileyesus: Yeah, I'm using OpenAI, the premium, the paid one.
Sunny: What is the… what is the model name?
Yonas Haileyesus: Dp… this one, GPT4.
Yonas Haileyesus: duty.
Sunny: Yes. Just check if any other model is also there, or it is able to deal with this language or not.
Sunny: Okay, maybe it is a problem with the language itself, so…
Yonas Haileyesus: has a problem with language, they have lexical problem.
Sunny: Aww.
Yonas Haileyesus: Even if…
Sunny: The mini, mini TTS, basically, maybe not able to do, but just check out with the other variants of… other variant of the GPT, right? Which you can handle the text-to-speech, so if it can take… if it can do, I think you can try out with that, okay?
Yonas Haileyesus: So even if, like, as much as possible, I will try to speed increase, decreasing, or even if, like, the voice I'm using Alo means, like, nana, they have no any gender, as much as possible, I will try to…
Yonas Haileyesus: fix that one. So…
Yonas Haileyesus: Shall I training the models, when I was training the model, is the best way?
Sunny: Training is not, option. See, it could be, basically, what you can do, using the OpenAI fine-tuning API only, you can fine-tune. It is possible. But again, it will require some more money and all, okay? With very few money, also, you can try out that with, 10 to 15,
Sunny: at least 10 to 15, example you can provide to this model, and you can tr… you can fine-tune, okay? Open it, just check out with my… one of the video, just open my YouTube, write Sunny Savita.
Sunny: you will get, OpenAI fine-tuning video. Okay, just use the video, just watch out that video, and go with the OpenAI API, and fine-tune this model on top of your, some example, couple of examples, and then regenerate, the response, okay?
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, as much as whatever I want to try to do.
Sunny: Otherwise, do one thing. See, Google is also providing you some models, Google TTS and all, right? You can try out with those models also.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Why is the Meta is also providing you some model with a multilingual capability, so maybe it can detect that Amaric language, okay? So, MMSTSAAMH, that is a model name I'm putting in the chat, so just check how you can access this model and how you can use
Sunny: For converting text to audio, right?
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, I'll communicate that.
Sunny: Just a second, I'm putting in the chat, just take this model.
Danish’s iPad: Ugh.
Yonas Haileyesus: A guided MMSSTTSMH, am I right?
Sunny: Yeah, this one. You can directly access it from the Hugging Face itself.
Sunny: Our unique face is providing you one class in a transformer. From there, import bits.
Sunny: BITS model, an auto tokenizer, and use this one. Okay, just check out the chat GPT, it will provide you the code snippet, okay?
Yonas Haileyesus: as much as we… I will try to.
Sunny: No.
Yonas Haileyesus: Another question is, may I share another, like, I have a question on, Another one.
Yonas Haileyesus: Have you seen my screen?
Yonas Haileyesus: Let me…
Sunny: Yeah, I can see.
Yonas Haileyesus: Only, only kidding?
Yonas Haileyesus: I think I'm sharing my linkage.
Sunny: No, LinkedIn is not visible.
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, hold on,
Yonas Haileyesus: Now it's coming?
Sunny: Yeah, it is coming.
Yonas Haileyesus: So, the day, yesterday, I actually have some experience of, lungchain, so…
Yonas Haileyesus: As much as possible, I will try to post some, and, and mention you, Monal, you, Paul, and Kirish. So my concern is,
Yonas Haileyesus: Like, there is a tool, like, in language chain, in the language chain, there's language, in language chain framework, there's a language chain. So.
Yonas Haileyesus: On long-chain package, they have a tool somewhere, right? It's a connected external tool somewhere, right?
Yonas Haileyesus: That tools means, like, like, for… Yeah, you can connect with them.
Sunny: external tool, see, it is providing you the different classes, right? So, they have coded some classes in the Langchen framework itself, and using that, we can create our custom tool. So, that custom tool creation, I'll show you how you can do that in a LangGraph, basically. Sorry, inside agentic chapter, okay? So, in the Agentic.
Yonas Haileyesus: Jupiter.
Sunny: Actually, we are going to be create our custom tool, we are going to be connect several functionality using that custom tool, okay? And, I can show you that. We have 4 to 5 ways to creating that custom tool we can do, okay?
Yonas Haileyesus: So, just, I'm self-learning, so I just, like, I'm trying to do some projects. So, my concern is, like, if adding some tools, like, calculate.
Sunny: Hmm. Okay.
Yonas Haileyesus: like, like,
Sunny: So, what you can do now, see, see, if you wanted to learn that, I, just check out with my video, some of the videos there, over the YouTube itself, my video, Krista video, I uploaded that. You will, once you will search Sunny Savita Ra… Sunny Savita Langraf.
Sunny: Okay, Sunny Savida agent, you will get that directly over the YouTube itself.
Sunny: Okay.
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, this one, first, or what's.
Sunny: Huh.
Sunny: This one now go in the playlist section. Playlist section?
Yonas Haileyesus: Yes, okay.
Sunny: Now here, no, scroll down.
Sunny: Now see this, Langraph playlist.
Sunny: Or this one, Langraff Courts. Langraff Courts. This one.
Yonas Haileyesus: Thank you.
Sunny: Agent AI playlist. So, here you will get the complete line graph, tools, and all everything. You can learn from there. Me, Chris, sir, we are regularly uploading a video on this kind of topics, okay? So, you can follow this until, right? We are not reaching into this topic.
Sunny: Got it.
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, what about, like, the OpenAI…
Yonas Haileyesus: What… what do you mean? Why did you say that earlier? I forgot. Hopefully I… What do you mean?
Sunny: Pardon?
Sunny: Huh, Lang Chen also, no, same, same, Lang Chen.
Sunny: Okay, langs.
Yonas Haileyesus: barely know.
Sunny: So, model you were saying, right?
Yonas Haileyesus: Yeah, model, yeah.
Yonas Haileyesus: Or… OTS.
Sunny: Text model, no? Text-to-speech model, correct?
Yonas Haileyesus: what, takes to specia.
Sunny: I share the model name in the chat, please check out there.
Yonas Haileyesus: No, for, like, you mentioned… yeah, no, I got it, like, you mentioned, like, for… I have a how-to…
Yonas Haileyesus: tuning OpenAI models, where do you get, like, over…
Sunny: Okay, that one, okay, fine-tuning one. Now, in the fine-tuning playlist, you will get, just write Sunisa with the OpenA fine-tuning in the search box, write that.
Yonas Haileyesus: This one?
Sunny: Search box, search box, ma'ore, right in the search box, you can write, oh, Sunisa with a fine-tuning, right? OpenAI fine-tuning.
Danish’s iPad: Alma, sorry, you're both important journal lah.
Sunny: In search box, you can write that. Okay, yeah. Yeah.
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay, thank you.
Sunny: This one only. This video, okay?
Yonas Haileyesus: Okay.
Sunny: Nope.
Tej: So… Can I go?
Sunny: You are done right, you know?
Yonas Haileyesus: I'm done, yeah, I'm done, yeah, I'm done.
Sunny: Yeah, next out, guys, I'll call the name, okay, wait. Sankar, please go ahead with the doubt.
Danish’s iPad: Don't?
Sankar USA: Yeah, hi, Sunny. So this fine-tuning, can we do it only for these, these open source models, or even for, the closed models, like Gemini, or Cloud Code, Claude, those…
Sunny: cost model also we can do. Jiminy and, Vertex AI is providing us one API… sorry, Vertex AI is also providing us some way of fine-tuning their model
Sunny: Okay, OpenAI is also providing us, right? So, we can use their inbuilt classes, and we can do the fine-tuning of the model, but we don't have that much of authority. We cannot download the model in our local, okay?
Sunny: We can just provide the data to their, like, platform, and we can get the fine-tuned model, okay? But we will not be able to configure any infrastructure, any model, nothing, okay?
Sankar USA: Okay. Yeah, and also, is there any format in which, like, like.
Danish’s iPad: Good.
Sankar USA: Good, good.
Danish’s iPad: Erike se staff bante.
Sankar USA: Hello?
Sunny: Just a second, just a second. Yeah, Sankar, please go ahead.
Sankar USA: Yeah, so, like, the data that we're using for fine-tuning.
Sunny: Then it'.
Sankar USA: be of any format, or are there any, like, standards around that? Like, either it is for closed-source models, or is it for fine-tuning the open source models using the.
Sunny: We'll discuss that, okay? I'll… once I'll show you the fine-tuning, we can discuss onto that, okay? Don't worry.
Sankar USA: Okay, okay, yeah, thank you, that's it.
Sunny: Yeah, thanks.
Sunny: Okay, Sankar is done now. Narash, hey…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah.
Sunny: Yo, please go ahead.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, can I share my screen soon?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, you can share.
Sunny: Then, Bebek Kumar, you can go, okay? After Narashay.
vivekkumar: Sue.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, appreciate options.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So my question is simple, like, what is the key name you mentioned to have a nugging face? So… HF underscore…
Sunny: token, HF underscore token, that's it.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Oh, okay, okay, okay. Earlier, it was not. We don't need AP and a square token.
Sunny: Actually, by default now, Hugging Face look into this particular variable, hf underscore token, right? So, read and write is just for our understanding, that there's a read token and write token.
Sunny: Got it?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, yeah, this moved.
Sunny: Yep. Think.
Sunny: Yeah, Vivek, please go ahead with your doubt.
vivekkumar: Yeah, I have the same problem, like, it's looking for the, like, auth key for the hugging phone, but I have added the same auth token, like.
vivekkumar: I don't know why it's not working. Can I share my screen?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, show me, I'll check.
Sunny: Yeah, please share the screen, Vivek.
vivekkumar: It just won't just food.
vivekkumar: Can you see my screen?
Sunny: Yeah, I can see.
vivekkumar: Whoa.
vivekkumar: Yeah.
vivekkumar: So, I… I have the same token, okay?
Sunny: No, write HF token, HF underscore token. Don't keep this HF under… see, if you have keep this HF underscore token read, write, that is fine, okay? This is for us only. Read token, write token. But create one HF underscore token here. Create, add secret.
Sunny: HF underscore token.
Sunny: I'll remove this right from here.
vivekkumar: And what I have to keep here?
Sunny: Now, just keep any read key, write key, whatever. As of now, we are reading the thing, just keep the read key here.
vivekkumar: But, okay, so…
Sunny: Just copy the key, then put it over there. Not like that, okay? You copied in the wrong way.
vivekkumar: No, this is the correct copy, copy, copy, copy.
Sunny: Copy it, copy it from the copy icon is there now, right?
vivekkumar: And this is the key token, rate token.
Sunny: The read token, just… okay, then it's fine. Just copy here and, paste it there. Then restart your kernel, and
Sunny: Run it again, okay? Restart the runtime.
vivekkumar: We start systems.
Sunny: Reads of session, correct.
Sunny: And then, scroll up.
Sunny: Scroll up, scroll up.
Sunny: Let's scroll up.
Sunny: From where you're running… from… run it from starting of the file itself.
vivekkumar: I can run north, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, you can run.
Sunny: Actually, see, either you will have to define that manually, or verbally, actually. Sorry, you will have to define that manually.
Sunny: Or else, basically, you will have to put HF underscore token, okay?
vivekkumar: No, no, I just want to understand, like, if I want to give multiple tokens, like, it's like read and write both.
Sunny: object aap banar rahuna, scroll up kuro aapde ko, meh batata, scroll up karu.
vivekkumar: Over the map.
Khadeja: Sir, may there be a question. I just wanted to clarify, if I want to use a specific read or write token, then I'll have to define in the model definition, right?
Sunny: Correct. Let me show you where you have to define. Okay, the next class also, I will show you that, because it might be confusing for all of us. So, in the next class, I'll show you Kilei, but yeah, scroll down, way back, scroll down.
Sunny: Scroll down, the code. HF API call Object Banario, no, right? Yeah, hover over mouse, just hover your mouse here.
Sunny: usme aura na token karke variable arah hai.
vivekkumar: API.
Sunny: key token, so here we can define the API key.
Sunny: So just write the API… just write that vari… just write that parameter, and write your read and write API key over here. That's it.
vivekkumar: Okay.
Sunny: So here, also, we can define that. Got it?
vivekkumar: We are token, like, we have to pass token name or token value?
Sunny: token value only, no? Huh? If you have read the value.
Sunny: inside this variable, then you can mention this variable. Simple.
vivekkumar: Damn.
vivekkumar: And can I delete this?
Sunny: See, just leave this thing as of now, okay? Leave it whatever way, in whatever way you execute it, just be there, okay? Let it be. In the next class, I'll show you that in detail, okay?
vivekkumar: Okay, okay, fine. And one more thing I just want to ask you about, like, suppose, like, I have application, and that application, like, generating too much, like, logs and all.
vivekkumar: And I want to, like, create, like, some, like, tools to, like, understand the logging things.
vivekkumar: So, how I can go for the fine-tuning? Like, suppose the logits keep on generating, and it's writing in some particular location.
vivekkumar: And I want to write application to generate, so it's… it'll just read from that location and put in my, like, AI things, and read it from there. And if I want to search some particular exception, or error, or any…
vivekkumar: particular, like, class-specific logs. So, just go through all the logs and give me the… all the details and… and give some more information about that.
Sunny: So…
Sunny: No, I'm not able to get.
vivekkumar: Huh, so… Support Miripass, Charpaunch, unlike API call,
vivekkumar: Microservices.
vivekkumar: Or Boh ik… Particular location pe bore lock ko, right?
vivekkumar: log file in it. Okay.
vivekkumar: AI hai.
vivekkumar: Or more recurring, like, every day, like, I will refresh that logs and all.
vivekkumar: now my AI, like, like, fine-tune all, like, RAG or, like, some MCP, whatever the application I want to create, it needs to just go and, like, read all the logs, which I have copied, okay?
vivekkumar: N?
vivekkumar: Let's, like, do some processing. Let's do some, like, fine-tuning or something. Okay.
vivekkumar: whenever I…
vivekkumar: go for… like, whenever I look for some particular log, it should go through all the logs and give me, like, some error or exception, whatever the class having… whatever the log files having the error and exception.
vivekkumar: And it doesn't…
vivekkumar: Analyze all the, like, error or exception, and just give me the information of that trace back, and give me the region why it's got error exception, okay?
vivekkumar: that kind of the, like, solution I want to just develop. So, what are the things required for that? Like, can you just give me heads up?
Sunny: See, you have a continuous data, right? A streaming data.
vivekkumar: Yeah, just…
Sunny: coming, right? So, just to set up the data pipeline for that means you are getting a data
Sunny: Let's say you're getting a streaming log. After that, what you will do.
Sunny: you collected a log, you can, create one functionality for collecting a log, okay? Then, that log is being gen… means whatever log is being streamed, you are collecting that log. Then, you are, cleaning that log. After the cleaning, what you are doing.
Sunny: you are, keeping it… you are creating a chunking if it is required, right? Or whatever level of cleaning, pre-processing you are doing with that. And then after embedding, you are storing inside the vector DB. So that ingestion pipeline, you will have to create over here.
Sunny: Okay? Now, once you get the data inside the database, on top of it, you can build a rack.
Sunny: You can build a retriever pipeline, and you can provide that context to the LLM, okay?
vivekkumar: First stream is, like, streaming the data, like, log data.
Sunny: No, no, see, you have a log source. Let's say you are getting a lock from the CloudWatch, from the ELK stack, from the Kubernetes logs.
vivekkumar: You wanna…
Sunny: Collecting that lock.
Sunny: Okay, in any way, you collected that log, okay? Now, while you are collecting, so there is one thing, you can collect directly, or there is a streaming, right? You are streaming that log using Kafka, Anesis, or PubSub, something like that, right?
Sunny: now you're processing that log, maybe using the Python logic, you're simply processing that log, right? So you got the clean log data.
Sunny: Okay? You have a clean structural log data, let's say you have one JSON object with respect to one single log, okay? With all the metadata and all. Now, you are creating, you are keeping that particular data inside the vector database.
Sunny: Right? How you will do that? You will generate an embedding of the log, okay, you will keep the other metadata and all, and you will create one vectorDB object, right? Now, once you've got the data inside the vectorDB, on top of that, you can create your RAG architecture. Understood.
Sunny: Yes or no?
vivekkumar: Right?
Sunny: You just have to work on that ingestion site. Now, once you've got the data inside of VectorDB, your work is done, that's it. Okay?
vivekkumar: ki jo login?
Sunny: Normal, any LLM you can use, you can use the GPT 5.4 OK Opus model. These models are very good, it can easily understand, anything from your log data, okay?
vivekkumar: Okay, so any, like, any LLM, like…
Sunny: See, LLM is not a challenge over here, understand.
vivekkumar: Please. Okay.
Sunny: The data is a main challenge here.
Sunny: What is the challenge you see? Continuous data.
vivekkumar: Okay.
Sunny: You will have to parse the data, metadata generation, then arrange the data inside the vector database. That is a main challenge.
vivekkumar: processing of the data, it will be the Python script, correct?
Sunny: not simple Python, it's the complete pipeline you will have to build. Just research more onto it, okay? Or how I can engineer this part.
vivekkumar: suppose if eating, like, white honey, if I'm able to, like, pick, like…
Sunny: Siri, Python se aap simple sa logic lick keys panna sakteo. Lekin production grid kit puri aapko engineering design karni padi ginah, kahan kaise log arai hain, k seari hakai op. Ab simple Python logic tohi ab likhe, mitla cloud sa lekhaloga co-pilot se qualoge, but meh, scalable solution ki baat karna, uspeh mein aapko samja rahu.
Sunny: Okay? aap sam johat ko.
Sunny: challenge nahi here.
vivekkumar: Thank you.
Sunny: upon my data pipeline ko set up Kuroya, okay?
vivekkumar: Okay. Okay, fine. I'll do that.
Sunny: Sure, thanks.
vivekkumar: Thanks, yeah, thanks.
Sunny: Okay, next out is… so, Shant, if you are there, please go ahead.
Sushanta Saha: So, yeah, hello.
Sunny: Yes, for sure.
Sushanta Saha: Yeah. So, sir, I just, want to know a little bit about, like, ongoing, projects, like, which is going on in industry. Like, one is, like, the fine-tuning kind, and another is a REC, and third one is, like, you know, agentic with MCP.
Sushanta Saha: So, like, like, if we say about the percentage of project works, like, which is going on at the industry level.
Sushanta Saha: So, which one is more dominant?
Sushanta Saha: Right now?
Sunny: So, see, we can, training is not required every time.
Sunny: Okay? For every use case, training is not required, so you can simply build the Agentic rag or the Agentic pipeline.
Sunny: Right? Drag and agents is sufficient for most of the use cases. Fine-tuning, retraining is not required. Got it?
Sunny: Yeah. Yeah.
Sushanta Saha: Thank you.
Sunny: Got it, Shoshan?
Sushanta Saha: Yeah, yeah, but, actually, my question is a little bit, different. The thing is that, what I want to mean is the industry trend, like, the project work is going… means the way the industry is moving.
Sunny: In the industry also, we follow the same thing, right? We don't directly prefer the fine-tuning.
Sunny: Okay? We always prefer the RAG pipeline, okay, context-based pipeline, or basically agentic pipeline, how we can design the agentic flow, okay? So we generally focus onto that side, instead of the training, got it?
Sushanta Saha: She also, yeah. Thank you.
Sunny: Pink.
Sunny: Yeah, now NIV, who is this? .
Tej: The stage, can I talk?
Sunny: you know, I'm coming to you. Who is this NIV?
Niv: Yeah, I, I saw.
Sunny: AI and Ivy, please go ahead.
Niv: Actually, Sanila, in the real time, we will, use a Guinfish only for,
Niv: training purpose, like, LLM fine-tuning, we'll use, AgingPace application only, or any other tool?
Niv: If you wanted to, tiny.
Sunny: Sorry I did not get you.
Niv: You know, like, today, we had a class on, you know, LLM fine-tuning, right? Using a database.
Niv: So, if I want to do, like, a fine-tuning LLM in my company, I want to use, like, we'll have only
Niv: one application, our open source game face only we will use. Any industry internally will have any other application. Like, just now you told Germany and, other tools also, like that.
Niv: only these fewer applications are available, or any other applications also there? Like, we've already, done any other kind of fine-tuning what project like that?
Sunny: So, you are saying, for your company also, you have to fine-tune your model. Now, which applic… which framework we will be using?
Niv: Yeah, yesterday.
Sunny: It's a hugging Face or any other one, right?
Niv: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny: So for that, what you can do, you can use the unslot. It is a very good framework, and you will be able to do your faster training, right? And even it's an industry-grade, like, framework, okay? And community support is also good, and it is supporting each and every model.
Sunny: So I would highly recommend you, you can go with the unslot itself, okay?
Niv: Okay, fine, thank you.
Sunny: Hugging phase, why I'm teaching you the hugging phase, so that you can connect with the basics, actually, right? But if you would ask me, Sunny, which framework you will use for fine-tuning if you have a real-time use case, then I will simply pick the onslaught for that, okay?
Sunny: Yep.
Niv: Yeah, sure, son. Thank you so much.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Okay. Now… Khadija, right? What's your doubt, Khadija?
Khadeja: Hello, Sunny, sir, thank you. It's really fun, the classes are really fun. Sir, most of the questions that I wanted to ask are answered. I just have one really, like, more of a career counseling one. Can I ask you those? Like, can I ask you something really quickly?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, you can ask.
Khadeja: Sir, so I know you mentioned in classes that most of the things that you learn are because you had projects in your work and environment and everything, and a lot of the people that I know who are working in Gen AI, I only see them mostly picking up stuff, like, by Googling and everything, if they have projects.
Khadeja: So right now, what I basically struggle with is I am getting so much more context with these classes, obviously, but you know, if I think about a solution that I want to build and kind of do, like, a side project to have a good portfolio for later on as well.
Khadeja: I don't, I don't understand. So, you know, I asked… I obviously then ask some GPT or something of what I want to build, and blah blah blah, and it keeps on getting very hard.
Khadeja: how do I get, like, that, you know, industry experience, or, like, the projects which are worth showing, and, you know, eventually build up to that place where I can get hired? Because I was a software engineer, like, 2 years back, and I was a front-end engineer. Like, I wouldn't call myself, like, perfectly, you know, deploying APIs or anything, and I'm now switched to a product analyst role.
Khadeja: And I want to be able to have a portfolio which I can, you know, it's job-worthy and ready, and, like, most of the forward deploy engineer, Gentec engineers have, like, so many years of experience required for the job description, so…
Khadeja: how do you suggest that we learn? Like, do you… how do you… how do you keep up? How do you learn? Like, because the AI industry is evolving so fast, like, whatever I'm learning right now, what if, like, it's not relevant? And, like, how do you decide what to prioritize, how to learn how to build projects?
Sunny: So, ma'am, see, project-wise, basically, you should integrate the AI mainly, right? So, as you said, you already know the front-end engineering, you already know the back-end engineering, right?
Khadeja: So.
Sunny: After development side, I think you are good, correct? If you are getting any web development…
Khadeja: I wouldn't say that I'm amazing, but like…
Sunny: What is your current skill set, may I know?
Khadeja: Right now, what I'm working in right now.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Current skill set, on which framework you are working.
Sunny: What you are doing, actually.
Khadeja: I'm working as a product analyst, so I'm using, Airflow, Python, SQL,
Khadeja: obviously, like, deploying stuff and maintaining coding pipelines, like, analytical engineer, basically, that sort of a thing, and Tableau and stuff like that, so I'm not really…
Khadeja: very fluent on software engineering anymore, like, it was 2 years back when I was working as a software engineer, and now, too, also front-end.
Sunny: Okay, okay, got it, got it. So, see, what you can do as of now, you can work mainly with the AI, specific, modules, right? AI-specific module means you can build the application around to RAG, around to agentic AI.
Sunny: Okay? And that not to just a notebook solution or a small solution, a complete end-to-end solution.
Sunny: Now, in the end-to-end solution, what you will build, so in an end-to-end solution, first you will understand the business requirement, okay? Then, after that, basically, you will design the complete end-to-end flow, high-level flow, right? How your application is going to be behaved. Then, you will do certain development on top of it, okay? And then, that application, you are going to be deploying, correct? So, on a high level, we always follow this pipeline in our industry also.
Sunny: Correct? So, you can build… you can build any project in the same way. Got it, getting my point?
Khadeja: Yes,
Sunny: So, once we will do the project in the class, we are also going to… we are also going to do in a same way itself. So, first, I will introduce the business problem statement, then basically I will design the high-level architecture, what component we can use.
Sunny: what will be the technical architecture, okay, technical flow, and then only we are going to be build that application, okay? And, see, this application, basically, it's going to be a combination of both. So, where we will be having the AI-related thing, right, which is the heart of the application, and around to that, we are going to do the several software engineering also.
Sunny: Okay, means the API building, front end, and then, we are going to deploy that, right? So if you are going to be create an application in such way.
Sunny: Okay? And if you're going to be mentioned inside your resume, along with a proper business use case, then it's going to be impactful. It's going to be impactful for your portfolio. Getting my point, right? So what you can do, you can wait for some time, at least for 2-3 months, right? So once, at least, we'll start our first project, right? We'll complete our first project, so you will have enough amount of understanding how to develop a project.
Sunny: how to narrate that project in terms of any business use case, okay? Or how to look around to the business use case, because you already know the tech stack then, you just require the business use case to convert into the end-to-end solution. Getting my point, right? Yes, yes. So, just wait for 2 to 3 more months, until we are not going to be complete, one single project, okay?
Khadeja: Understood. And the second part of the question, like, how do you keep up with stuff? And, for example, like, right now, I'm learning from your experience that you had while building those projects. So do you suggest a certain way of learning for us? Because I take detailed notes, or whatever you tell me, and I review them, so I remember most of the things that you tell me. But, you know, application-wise, you're also suggesting, like, wait for 2 months, and then I can, like, start picking up my own projects and building knowledge like you?
Sunny: So, see, ma'am, learning actually, learning and experience, both you can keep simultaneously, right?
Sunny: So, I can tell you, like, how I am learning, how I am coping of all the things, right? So, see, the first part of my, basically, experience is the real-time work, okay? So, whatever real-time work I'm doing in an industry, so that is my biggest source of the, learning.
Sunny: The second thing, basically, what I'm doing, on a regular basis, I'm exploring the thing, okay? So, one or two hours on a daily basis, I'm ex… I'm spending to explore the thing, I'm looking into the different YouTube, different blogs, different websites, or over the LinkedIn as well, that what is going on in the AI.
Sunny: Then my habit is to content creation. I always create a content, right, for my YouTube, for you guys, right? I'm teaching to so many people. So, likewise, basically, I'm able to, I'm able to, like, means, catch up each and every part of the AI, right?
Sunny: In terms of the project experience, and as well as the latest news and the latest thing as well. Now, how you can do as well, right? So, the very first thing, basically, as of now, you are in a learning phase, okay? So, you can learn whatever we are teaching to you. You can follow that syllabus, and even you can explore more on top of that. The second thing, basically, make a habit to create a content. I'm not saying video content only, you can create a blog.
Sunny: You can create some newsletter, you can create, basically whatever you wanted to create. You can create your own website, you can launch there, you can launch some blogs over there, AI-related blogs, okay? That will also be suffice, right?
Sunny: See, whenever you create a content na, you explore the thing in depth.
Sunny: Right? So…
Sunny: Right? So, along with the work, along with the learning, to make a habit to create a content as well. Right? So, with that, basically, you can cover each and every aspect of the AI, right? So learn…
Sunny: and apply that experience in your work, and alongside, create the content. So if you are following this paradigm, right, in that case, basically, you can, this, within one year or two years, your muscle memory is going to be very strong with respect to AI, and if anyone is going to be asking you anything with respect to AI from anywhere, right, you will be able to answer, and even a new thing will not be challenging for you. Any new thing is coming, you will just read one single line about that.
Sunny: You can easily understand it is belonging to which part, right?
Sunny: Getting my point. Okay.
Khadeja: Yes. Yeah. Thank you so much. This is very inspiring. I hope to be like you someday. Thank you so much for the detailed answer.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, yeah.
Sunny: Okay, Tej, what's your doubt? Please go ahead.
Tej: So, Sunny,
Tej: See, you were talking about, line chains and line graphs, right, in the context of Hugging Face, right? So… so, Hugging Face, like you said, it's like the hub for all the AI resources, right?
Tej: And… and you said Hugging Face, when they actually go enterprise, that's where they start making money, right? But, Lang Chain and Langraph, they're actually maintained by a separate, team, right? They're not… it's not actually owned by Hugging Face, correct?
Sunny: Correct, correct.
Tej: But how are they related?
Sunny: How the little…
Tej: See, today, while you were explaining that, you know, we'll use for fine-tuning Hugging Face, right, and also Lang Lang…
Tej: line graph.
Tej: At one point, you said, this is where Hugging Face starts generating revenue, right?
Sunny: No, no, let me simplify the thing. Okay, do you understand Hindi?
Tej: Huh, huh.
Sunny: Hugging face, ala company hai.
Sunny: Okay, langcheni kalak company hai. Okay. Abdi ko hugging face ne hai, bohot pele apna kami start kart diatha, doajar satra tarek time mein.
Sunny: Okay. Tap ka chiyeta koi esa platform cheetha, jo loko free resources available karwa sa ki.
Tej: Abhad.
Sunny: early stage LLM model hai, Jobhi dataset hai, wo subam provide karangay.
Sunny: Okay? Toh, essay hugging Face bana, boh pele, doja satra tara pein, right? Jab AI ka, boom istati hone balata, jab transformer market mein aayai ita.
Sunny: Getting my point. Anna? Apde ko, unone hai model provide karay community ko, une dataset provide karay community ko, fir onone expand karne start ki hai, expand kise onone hai, une kaya se modules framework banay, jin ki help se hum koj ke model ko retrain kar sapte hain. Anna?
Sunny: integrate karte hain. Toh onone ha bits and bytes aur orbhi adara other framework, apne platform pe, lake pura ecosystem lake dirtya community ko.
Sunny: aapko agarap na application host karvana hai, right? Toh, hammapko wo bhi available karay. Toh ye ko gya hugging phase.
Sunny: Ab simultaneously, dusri company kadi yui langchain. Aur langchain ka baya?
Sunny: existence mein, chap chat GPT launch hua. ChatGPT launch hua na market ko deka, ki chat GPT nahap API buildala hai, open AI karke. Sorry, apna, open AI API. Uske help sa GPT model ko hum access kar sakte hain. Ap GPT jaise model, powerful model thee.
Sunny: system mana nata application mana nata.
Sunny: racks banane, agents bananethe, toh onone ke a onone keik, ha mismal loka help karte hain, hame kesas unified ek integrated framework bananaki logo hai, jahap logo lagalak tari kodni lakhne hunge, kamara framework lok download kare, wahas class ko import kare, aur apna, langchenki thori sara kam, beta kar sa ki, mata vector dbib be integrate hojay, LLM se b integrate hoja hai, different, different different type ke, memory
Sunny: Right? Evaluation bhi y matlabam blogade.
Sunny: Toh essay karte langshanah, toh, hugging face ek alag company hai, langchenik alag company hai. Right? Hugging face provide karata hai aapko model, data set, or fine-tuning kili, different, different module or framework. Or langchen aapko kya karata hai, langchenik unified framework hai, joking melhi focus karta hai.
Sunny: application banana around to LLM. So, LLM already, buddy-bari company adeirin hai, uske around num kaise agents or reg ja se system, kale kar sakte hain, wo hum ko bol rah langchain. Sama jaya bhi.
Tej: Hugging Face?
Sunny: That's it, okay?
Tej: Like, just a GitHub, just a report, just a… just sitting there with all the… all the models and APIs in one place.
Sunny: Correct, correct, that's it.
Tej: So… and then… Archkick classmate, you also introduced this Google Colabs, right?
Tej: So, Uscar…
Tej: I mean, that is nothing related to fine-tune, right? Or general, you were just trying to show key…
Sunny: Basically, you can do… you can write any sort of a code over there, actually. That's it.
Tej: But you just wanted to introduce that now, like, just like the Jupyter…
Sunny: This is because of the GPU capability. I wanted to use the GPU capability of that, actually, that's why.
Tej: We might not have that GPU capability. So that's why we're gonna use Colab for that. Okay.
Sunny: Got it.
Tej: Perfect, Sunny. Our question is, starting of this call, ki.
Tej: Java model train karte hai, and then it will open it karte, who is the Prime Minister of India bulk, Modi bulkhe, it will predict. Because Hamney Javuzko trained kiata, hamne, India ka Prime Minister kana, Modi there katha. So, it had that in its memory, right?
Sunny: But let's.
Tej: Say, now I'll ask it.
Sunny: No, sir, not memory, actually. It is having a capability to predict something, because it has seen that thing in their training, actually. For that, you will have to understand the training and the inferencing side of the model, okay?
Tej: So, okay, so there's training and inference, because I think I was trying to explain to the other person, I think that's what his question was.
Tej: Prime Minister, let's say,
Tej: But by the time when you're running this model, let's say the Prime Minister has changed it.
Tej: And it doesn't have that data, what it will do is it will go to…
Tej: to the web and get the latest data, right? To inference it?
Tej: Huh.
Sunny: agar training mein nahi hain, toho web se utake us context ko samajki bhi answer this ata hai. Yeh bi capability achkal kes application ke pass. Yeh model ki capability ya model to context sama jarai bas. Josko dia jarai. Ye joh, application uski capability, actually. Okay?
Tej: basically, model… It is only trained on prediction, but it is ka, kudka kush memory neritha, na uska?
Sunny: Uska kush memory nahi, application ka memory data. Matlap jasa chat GPT hai, uske peche GPT user. Aga GPT kukal ko nahi patai kei hamara angin ka Indian Prime Minister Konhoga. Ojo application banaya, woke karai data scrap karai, wahan seb se, tousuna data scrap kiya web ko, aurik prompt banak model ko chupka di aki bhai de ko de ko ye data deklosara, offer uske bespe model answer jandate kar di. Ko uske reasoning ke pept
Sunny: Got it?
Tej: Got it, so basically… model by itself will not have that information. We'll still go.
Sunny: No.
Tej: Public and get the information.
Sunny: Huh, correct.
Sunny: agent mein MCP mein ye sabkam karte humbus. Okay.
Tej: This is where you go outside of Raghdadi Kamadan, where you try to.
Sunny: RAG matlab, yehi iska fundamental concept ye rag ka, lekin dahun throh skill karna chainsko toh agent banak, ya, for proper MCP bana keysko expose aur skill kar sakte hain, on a application level. But yeah, fundamental concept ye ragi hai, actually, okay?
Tej: Got it, got it. Perfect. Yeah, thanks, Annie. That's all the questions.
Sunny: Thanks.
Sunny: Okay, Anmol, you have a doubt, right? Please tell me what's your doubt.
amoljamkar: Hello, he's article.
Sunny: Yeah, I can hear you.
amoljamkar: Okay, so my question was that, Alti,
amoljamkar: Are they… are all the models in the… in the Hugging Face, are they hosted, means… means, are they deployed and, in a pod, and they are hosted live?
amoljamkar: So that we can access them through the API 24x7.
Sunny: We are live, sorry.
amoljamkar: I mean, like, for the model API to be active, we need to host them on a… maybe as a EC2 server or somewhere, right? So, for me to access the API… access the model through the API. So, is Hugging Phase maintaining such servers for all the models that we can access through the Hugging Phase API?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, they are maintaining it over the server, you can access 24 into 7, okay? So, anytime you can access from there.
amoljamkar: Okay, so, so similar to the OpenAI and ChatGPT models, the Hugging Face is also, like, maintaining the same models, but free of cost.
Sunny: Correct, correct, actually. They have a solo proprietary, that is a GPT model, right? Hugging Face is working for the community perspective, so they are hosting everyone's model on their server, and they're giving the access of that via API, okay?
amoljamkar: Okay, okay, but then some models, we need to pay for the…
amoljamkar: model access for the APIs, right, in Hugging Face as well.
Sunny: Again, face a paid API check or low check once paid API is available, okay?
Sunny: I think it is available there, you can access some, maybe, advanced models, something like that, okay? I haven't used, not sure, but you can check, okay?
amoljamkar: But then, whenever we are able to access a model through API, anywhere that is hosted, then that means that model is live somewhere on the server, right?
Sunny: Correct, correct, you are right.
amoljamkar: Okay, okay, fine, yeah, thanks, Dad, for the only question, thanks.
Sunny: Yeah, thank goodness.
Sunny: Okay, unmole is done now. Any more person having doubt? Otherwise, I'll close the session, guys.
amol.kulkarni.tp: Hey, Sunny, I have one question on what kind of research.
amol.kulkarni.tp: My question is more like, we also learned about OpenAPI, which is, again, access to different models.
amol.kulkarni.tp: We are learning about Hugging Face. So, is primary difference that, we can train the model using Hugging Face, and that's why, I mean, when to use which, that is, the basic question, like, when to use
amol.kulkarni.tp: OpenAI, and when to use Hugging Face.
Sunny: When to use OpenAI, when to use Hugging Face for the training of the model.
Sunny: Okay, and for.
amol.kulkarni.tp: So, only when that is… Yeah, because you can access different models using OpenAI also, right? So…
Sunny: You can access only OpenAI-based model from the OpenAI API, GPT and the whatever model they are providing, 5 to 6 model.
Sunny: But using the hugging phase, you can access different, different models. There are lacks of model hosted over there, okay? So any model you can access from there, and even you can download that model in your RAM on your server as well, for the fine-tuning purpose, okay?
amol.kulkarni.tp: Okay, okay.
Sunny: Yep.
amol.kulkarni.tp: And, the second question I had is, you were suggesting about, learning about PyTorch and, TensorFlow, right? So, is that required for the codes, or is it, like, for our generic understanding?
Sunny: Generic understanding, sir. If it is required for the course, then I would have to teach you that, right?
amol.kulkarni.tp: Okay, okay. So, for… I mean, going into deep dive into LLM, basically.
Sunny: Huh. That I am suggesting. If you are building something from scratch, any neural network, any CNN network, if you are working with the LLM from scratch, right? That time it is required, so just for your personal learning, understanding, and all, right?
Sunny: But for creating RAG, agent take, application, even for the fine-tuning, it is not required. We have some ready-made framework, we are using that, okay?
amol.kulkarni.tp: Okay.
Sunny: Yep.
amol.kulkarni.tp: Yeah, thank you.
Sunny: Okay, Ashish is done.
Sunny: Any more person… Not having any doubt.
Sunny: Guys, if your doubt is a result, please lower the hand, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, Pranja, what's your question?
Sunny: Projana, right?
Prajna: Hi, yes, Sydney.
Prajna: CRA?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, I can hear you.
Prajna: eligible?
Sunny: You're, you're ordered.
Prajna: So, Sunny, thank you for giving all these insights about the generative AIM.
Prajna: Attending everyday class.
Prajna: Only thing is that I'm not able to do the assignment because of the work.
Prajna: But then, What my understanding is that when I'm doing all these models,
Prajna: There are two types of models, right? You told in the argument phase, one is native, other one is outside, right?
Sunny: mentally.
Prajna: you know, the people, the community, actually, they have developed and they have posted. How do you come to know that? Means, when we are doing… using these models for our… I'm talking about when I'm doing for something, not,
Prajna: Just for learning, but for the, you know, office purpose.
Prajna: Wow.
Prajna: how much it is security? So, security, anything needs to be checked. I'm talking about, you know, deploying anything, they say that you need to follow the security, right?
Prajna: In the, interface.
Prajna: So you… how do you validate that? Or, you know, we can take any model and just deploy, do the fine-tuning and, you know, use it for the…
Prajna: LLM, for building a SLM or something like that.
Prajna: So, is there anything specific that is… leaderboard or something, where I can go and see that, okay, these are the…
Prajna: Most, in the algorithm.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can check out with the leaderboard itself, actually.
Sunny: Hugging Face Open Source Leaderboard, Hugging Arena Leaderboard, different, different leaderboards are there. You can check out there, okay?
Prajna: Okay, and one more thing I also wanted to check, I have, I'm facing some issue where it was staking.
Prajna: your code and trying to execute. Can I share my screen?
Sunny: Yeah, you can.
Prajna: Okay.
Sunny: Ashish, your doubt is resolved, right? Ashish Nayak, or is still her doubt?
Ashish Nayak: Yeah, I still have doubt, I haven't asked.
Sunny: Yeah, please tell me.
Ashish Nayak: Yeah, so on the Google Collab today, you showed, like, how we can use the GPU compute,
Ashish Nayak: But I want to understand, like, for which step exactly we will be actually start, consuming the GPUs. I mean, there are tasks like today, whatever you showed, like reading, making those API calls, fetching those data. So I saw there is a notification which said, like, you are connected to a GPU, but you are not.
Ashish Nayak: Using energy.
Ashish Nayak: So, my doubt is, like, at which particular step we will actually consume the GPUs.
Sunny: So while we'll be training the model, we'll use the GPU, okay?
Ashish Nayak: Okay.
Sunny: No.
Ashish Nayak: So, actually, when we start doing the fine-tuning.
Sunny: Correct.
Ashish Nayak: Okay, okay.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Got it.
Ashish Nayak: Yeah, yeah, it makes sense.
Sunny: Yep.
Prajna: Okay.
Sunny: Okay, Ashish is done. Yeah, Tanja, what's your doubt here?
Prajna: It is my… .
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. I solved… resolved this doubt, right? So, sorry, my bad, actually. Even I said this in a class as well, but I don't know, guys, you heard or not. You have to set HF token in the secrets, at secrets, at the HF token, okay?
Prajna: to court.
Sunny: hf underscore token. Otherwise, you will have to mention manually inside your object.
Sunny: So it's my bad, guys, don't worry, in the next class, I'll show you more, with more detail, this thing, but yeah, just keep your key over here, any value, read value over here, just keep that.
Sunny: value here.
Sunny: Copy that from the read, copy, copy, copy icon in, right? Delete, delete, or uske behind wallah. Just keep it here.
Prajna: Okay.
Sunny: Research copy and keep it, the complete one. Just check if it is a complete one or not, complete token or not.
Sunny: Check out the last part of that.
Prajna: They're complete one, actually.
Sunny: W, I, G, K, W, huh, then it is fine. Now restart the session and run it again, okay? It'll be working.
Prajna: Okay, okay, I'll do that. Okay, thanks.
Sunny: Look.
Prajna: Thank you, son.
Sunny: Thank you. Okay guys, bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you very much. If you have doubt, you can ask Vinda.
Sunny: You can write me in the mail, or you can ask in a comedy session. Comedy chat, okay? Thank you.